Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints:
What is software engineering? In this video, we will hear from experts discussing software
engineering. I think software engineering is the process
of using programming languages and engineering principles to build products. These products
could look like web apps, mobile apps, desk
top apps, operating systems, or even networking
systems. It is a skill that's integral to the success of our modern society. Because
without technology, we couldn't get a lot of things done today. Within software engineering.
It's a very broad term. And so within software engineering, you have roles such as front
end, back end, security, mobile, test, full stack, DevOps, cloud data, and machine learning.
And these are all different types of engineers within software engineering. I would define software engineering as building
and improving software from anywhere from design architecture to the user interface
to fixing small bugs. So anything that falls in that range, that's what software
engineers do So software engineering, to me, I think really
has to do with, I consider it a creative process. And it's fundamentally is the practice of
designing, envisioning implementing, and then supporting and maintaining software through
the full lifecycle of it. So not just writing code, but, you know, thinking about the software
you're building before you even written a line of code, the journey from idea
inception to, to actual implementation and launching upset software and then maintaining
it, improving it, supporting it, and potentially evolving into something else. So it's very
much a sort of creative and full, full lifecycle end to end engineering process. So I know in the United States, at least software
engineering, software development programming they all have, depending on who you ask, they
mean very specific things or very hazy things or very contradictory things. Or it's like
why do we even have three different titles for the same thing. I think of those titles
is kind of all meaning the same thing. RECORD NARRATION: What s the difference between a software engineer
and a developer? Yeah, I think the difference for me, I consider
engineering to be a little bit sort of broader software engineer be broader than then development,
I think development to me means is sort of one part of the process. So I think one fundamental
difference for me is I think software engineering is beyond just writing code, which I think
a developer often is handed a task to, to write a piece of code, create a a module,
piece of software, whatever term you want to use, I think engineering involves sort
of starting, you know, a very long time before you even get to the development process and
continues on beyond the time you would actually take your code, deploy it. So this kind of
goes into the full lifecycle. In my opinion, there isn't A difference really.
So for example, I was trained as a full stack engineer or a full stack developer, but I
was hired as a software engineer to work on the front end of the company's application.
So I think it's a matter of semantics. And a lot of it, I think, is a lot of gatekeeping.
To keep people who don't know anything about about the industry out. Somebody who has
studied CS may argue differently from I do, but as a person with a non traditional
path into the world of software engineering, I only see it as like title changes and title
differences. And I think it depends on what company you work in, and what company you
work for. Because at the end of the day, we're all using the same tools and technology to
get the product shipped to production . I think that they are pretty similar roles.
They are used interchangeably a lot, I think. But I think the main difference is that software
engineers are also responsible for the system design and architecture as well as data, how
it's received, used, and how it's disseminated. Whereas software developers, I think, focus
more on the building of apps and features. So, in Canada, being a computer programmer,
or a software developer is incredibly different than being a computer engineer or a software
engineer, where to be an engineer, it means you've taken specific classes in like codes
of ethics. And you're held to the same ethical standards as a civil engineer or a mechanical
engineer. And so depending on where you are, the name, the titles can mean very different
things. And I know for purposes of immigration, the titles also can mean very specific things.
And you have to be careful about like, what it is that you put down. But in job descriptions,
I kind of see them all used interchangeably, and I tend to just kind of think of them all
as the same thing. The, you know, it's much of a more of a longer
time horizon, I think, in front in terms of engineering versus development. I think there's
a lot more considerations and hats you need to put on throughout the software engineering
lifecycle versus the kind of more narrowly scoped development cycle.
Welcome to Roles in Software Engineering Projects. After watching this video, you will be able
to list the common roles on a software engineering
project, describe each role, and
explain the responsibilities of each role. There are several common roles on a software
development project. And these roles can have different names depending on the approach
being used, such as Agile or waterfall. Sometimes different companies have different names for
similar jobs. But, not all projects will have all these roles. The roles we will discuss
in this video are project manager or scrum master,
stakeholder, system or software architect,
UX designer, software developer,
tester or QA engineer, site reliability or Ops engineer,
product manager or owner, and technical writer or information developer.
Now let’s describe each role and some of the responsibilities for each job. Traditional SDLC methods have
project managers but in Agile the equivalent role is called a
Scrum master. A project manager makes sure the project runs smoothly and facilitates
communication about the project. The project manager often deals with bigger picture issues
such as: Planning, scheduling, and budgeting;
Allocating personnel and resources; Executing the software plan; and
Team communication. In Agile, there is a Scrum master. Rather
than focusing on planning, the Scrum master is focused on ensuring team and
individual success. Remember that the four core Agile values
prioritize people and communication over process, and the Scrum master is
responsible for facilitating that communication. The stakeholders are the
people for whom the product is being designed. They include individuals such as the customer,
end-users, decision-makers, system administrators, and other key personnel.
The stakeholder is mainly responsible for defining project requirements and
providing feedback if the team members need clarification on requirements or if a proposed solution
cannot be solved as planned. The stakeholders may also sometimes participate
in beta testing and acceptance testing before the software is released. The system architect,
designs and describes the architecture of a project as well as communicates that architecture
to team members. They are sometimes also called a software
architect or a solution architect. They are responsible for
designing the essential characteristics of the inner structure and
technical aspects of the software. The architect provides
technical support across the different stages of the SDLC. Note: software architecture will be discussed
in further detail in another module. UX means user experience.
The goal of a UX designer is to balance making the software intuitive but also as robust
as it needs to be to address requirements. They define how the software behaves from
the user’s perspective. The UX designer determines
how the software communicates its functionality to the end-user and
how the end-user interacts with it. Next, the developers
write the code that powers the software. Responsibilities include
implementing the architecture laid out in the design document,
incorporating the requirements laid out in the software requirements specification, and
employing the UX requirements determined by the UX designers. Testers or QA engineers are
in-charge of ensuring the quality of the product and that the software solution meets customer
requirements. They are responsible for
writing and executing test cases to identify bugs or deficiencies and
provide this feedback to the development teams. A site reliability engineer, sometimes called
an SRE or ops engineer, bridges development and operations by combining
software engineering expertise with IT systems management.
They track incidents and facilitate meetings to discuss them.
They also automate systems, procedures, and processes;
assist with trouble shooting; and ensure reliability for the customer. The product manager or product owner has the
vision of what the product should look like. They have an intimate
understanding of the client’s requirements, and the end-user’s needs. They are
responsible for leading development efforts to create the
software and for ensuring the product provides the value
stakeholders are looking for. Finally, the technical writer or information
developer writes documentation for the end-user. They
write documentation on technical material geared towards a non-technical
audience. Not only does this documentation help the end-user to use the software, but
it also helps the customer so they can provide timely feedback to the development teams.
Technical writers may be asked to write user manuals, reports, white papers, and press releases. In this video you learned that:
There are a variety of job roles on a software development project and
each occupation has responsibilities unique to each role.
Welcome to Roles in Software Engineering Projects. After watching this video, you will be able
to list the common roles on a software engineering
project, describe each role, and
explain the responsibilities of each role. There are several common roles on a software
development project. And these roles can have different names depending on the approach
being used, such as Agile or waterfall. Sometimes different companies have different names for
similar jobs. But, not all projects will have all these roles. The roles we will discuss
in this video are project manager or scrum master,
stakeholder, system or software architect,
UX designer, software developer,
tester or QA engineer, site reliability or Ops engineer,
product manager or owner, and technical writer or information developer.
Now let’s describe each role and some of the responsibilities for each job. Traditional SDLC methods have
project managers but in Agile the equivalent role is called a
Scrum master. A project manager makes sure the project runs smoothly and facilitates
communication about the project. The project manager often deals with bigger picture issues
such as: Planning, scheduling, and budgeting;
Allocating personnel and resources; Executing the software plan; and
Team communication. In Agile, there is a Scrum master. Rather
than focusing on planning, the Scrum master is focused on ensuring team and
individual success. Remember that the four core Agile values
prioritize people and communication over process, and the Scrum master is
responsible for facilitating that communication. The stakeholders are the
people for whom the product is being designed. They include individuals such as the customer,
end-users, decision-makers, system administrators, and other key personnel.
The stakeholder is mainly responsible for defining project requirements and
providing feedback if the team members need clarification on requirements or if a proposed solution
cannot be solved as planned. The stakeholders may also sometimes participate
in beta testing and acceptance testing before the software is released. The system architect,
designs and describes the architecture of a project as well as communicates that architecture
to team members. They are sometimes also called a software
architect or a solution architect. They are responsible for
designing the essential characteristics of the inner structure and
technical aspects of the software. The architect provides
technical support across the different stages of the SDLC. Note: software architecture will be discussed
in further detail in another module. UX means user experience.
The goal of a UX designer is to balance making the software intuitive but also as robust
as it needs to be to address requirements. They define how the software behaves from
the user’s perspective. The UX designer determines
how the software communicates its functionality to the end-user and
how the end-user interacts with it. Next, the developers
write the code that powers the software. Responsibilities include
implementing the architecture laid out in the design document,
incorporating the requirements laid out in the software requirements specification, and
employing the UX requirements determined by the UX designers. Testers or QA engineers are
in-charge of ensuring the quality of the product and that the software solution meets customer
requirements. They are responsible for
writing and executing test cases to identify bugs or deficiencies and
provide this feedback to the development teams. A site reliability engineer, sometimes called
an SRE or ops engineer, bridges development and operations by combining
software engineering expertise with IT systems management.
They track incidents and facilitate meetings to discuss them.
They also automate systems, procedures, and processes;
assist with trouble shooting; and ensure reliability for the customer. The product manager or product owner has the
vision of what the product should look like. They have an intimate
understanding of the client’s requirements, and the end-user’s needs. They are
responsible for leading development efforts to create the
software and for ensuring the product provides the value
stakeholders are looking for. Finally, the technical writer or information
developer writes documentation for the end-user. They
write documentation on technical material geared towards a non-technical
audience. Not only does this documentation help the end-user to use the software, but
it also helps the customer so they can provide timely feedback to the development teams.
Technical writers may be asked to write user manuals, reports, white papers, and press releases. In this video you learned that:
There are a variety of job roles on a software development project and
each occupation has responsibilities unique to each role.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Job Roles
in Software Engineering Teams. In this video we will hear from experts discussing
the various job roles you can expect to work with on your Software Engineering team. On the engineering team I worked with,
we had a product manager, we had a tech lead, we had a QA, we had a few QA analysts or test
engineers. And we also had access to UX designers. And so the product manager ensured that we
were on task and on track to deliver the features that we said we were going to build according
to the business needs, that way we're not left behind. Yeah, I think, in my experience, the
roles that the software engineers would interact with the most, I think would, you know, in no
particular order product managers, so the folks who are actually sort of working with
the sales teams, the marketing teams, figuring out what actually needs to be built, what
our customer needs, what are innovations and ideas that, you know, looking forward, that
we might, you might want to invest in and build out. We asked our experts to describe these job
roles in software engineering teams in further detail I think software engineering these days, as
it becomes more and more, more more and more large scale, more complex more systems at
play. More considerations, there's just a lot of
things to consider in today's in today's world as a software engineer, so you often work
with a project or program manager who helps you set up your timelines, helps
you ensure you're meeting your goals, helps you unblock yourself helps you keep your stakeholders
community up to date with what is what is happening with your project. So there's just a lot of pieces involved. And I think project and program managers really
are there to help tie it all together. So the product manager would always act
somewhat like a scrum master. So like, we would have stand ups. And we would talk about the tickets that we
had in JIRA. And it was it was like, okay, so what are
you working on? What do you need help with? And are there any issues. And during that process, the product manager
does ensure that we were on task and on track, and if we had any issues, he would help us
to resolve it. You'll have a software engineer who's more
focused on the architecture and they can keep the the big picture in their brain more easily. And then some software engineers who are more
than nitty gritty, I'm sitting down and I am writing code and my my job is to like,
turn business logic into computer logic. And some companies have those all split out
as different roles. I think software engineers, and then these
roles that the more they're embedded and work closely together and actually collaborate
as part of a single team. versus handing off things in a more waterfall
approach. I think that that's generally the the best
way, or was one of the most effective ways is to actually work together as much as possible
regular check ins, actually having, you know, brainstorming sessions, group chats that involve
all the various folks, all the roles, I think, close collaboration, there is super key And at some companies, all the different hats
have their own titles. So you might be talking to a software engineer
who's actually doing more kind of DevOps infrastructure building, monitoring and alerting kinds of
work. And then there's a software engineer who's
also doing QA work. And they're the ones who are focusing on pipelines
and continuous continuous development, continuous integration type projects, working on getting
test suites and automation all set up. In terms of working with the UX designer or
the UX engineer, they would give me like specific specs from figma. In order to meet the certain specifications
of the business, it's let's say, we're building a checkout page. So the UX UX designer would design the spec
page and figma and then deliver that spec to me, and then I would code it according
to the design. UX designers who actually come up with it,
if you work, if you're working on an engineering or user interface, you work with UX designers
to, to essentially from the moment of sketching out sort of a, you know, a draft on paper
or whiteboard of an idea all the way down to working with them on mocks and implementing
the mocks iterating. On those UX researchers often are worked with
when you actually need to go out and do research and market and interview your partners or
customers to get sort of as real time as possible. And just, you know, real feedback from real
users of your, of your software. So once I code something, I get it reviewed
by my tech lead or my senior engineer, it would go to QA for them to test the application
to ensure that whatever I did or implemented, didn't break anything. If something is broken, that I didn't catch,
the QA tester would write up like a test plan or would do like a detailed testing document. That way I understood exactly what needed
to be resolved. And I would resolve it, and then go back to
the QA person and say, Hey, this is fixed, can you take a look at it again, and they
would tell me whether or not it's fixed and whether or not something else was broken,
which often happens with code. So you know, you generally work a lot with
product managers, because you need to know what to build. And they generally give you a lot of guidance
on, on what they want to build, and you collaborate with them in terms of how to build it and
discuss trade offs and timelines, and expectations. So it's a very much a collaborative process. Typically, I have found that I interact most
with product owners. So either at some places, it's been a customer
who works inside the company. And so I go to them quite frequently for questions
on clarifying refinements for getting test schedules up and running for figuring out
pain points and trying to optimize their workflow workflows using technology to support them. Software engineers work often with site reliability
engineers, or Sysadmins is maybe there, the role could be called to actually maintain
and help run the software and deploy it and actually get it running somewhere that's not
on your desktop, you often work with more dedicated test engineers who are responsible
for end to end testing, automated testing, integration testing, at all, at all points
of the lifecycle. So as an engineer, you're never alone. You're never working alone. It's just a matter of like knowing how to
communicate directly with the people on your team
Hello, welcome to Overview of Web
and Cloud Development. When you’re starting out as a Web Developer,
it can be difficult to determine what you need to learn and what order you should learn
it in. Understanding how familiar websites are constructed and delivered to you is a good starting point. Let’s review the basics of how you interact
with a website. You launch an internet browser – there are
lots available: Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox,
and Apple Safari are some of the most popular. The browser has an address bar, into which
you enter a URL, like www.IBM.com. The browser then contacts the server with
the name and requests the information that makes up the website. The server then sends a response, which contains
the data that the client requires to display the website. For most websites, the server will return: HTML, which defines the structure of the page,
but doesn’t look very attractive CSS, which adds style and flair to the page
and JavaScript, which adds interactivity and dynamic content. Content displayed by websites can contain
elements that are either previously stored on the server (called “static”) or generated
each time they are requested by the client (called “dynamic”). Dynamic elements can involve information coming
from other systems and applications, such as databases. Most websites contain static and dynamic elements
to provide the best user experience. Cloud Applications are similar to Websites
in that they request content that a server returns. Cloud Apps are built to work seamlessly with
a Cloud-based back-end infrastructure, Cloud-based data storage and data processing, and other
Cloud services, making them very scalable and very resilient. The environment for building websites and
Cloud Applications is divided into two primary areas: front-end and back-end. The front-end deals with everything that happens
at the client-side – everything the user can see and interact with. You can choose to specialize in front-end
coding, using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and related frameworks, libraries, and tools. The back-end deals with everything that happens
on the server before the code and data are sent to the client. The back-end coding usually handles the logic
and functionality that make the website or app work, and the authentication processes
that keep data secure. Back-end developers may also work with relational
or noSQL databases, even collaborating with database administrators in bigger projects. Full-stack developers have skills, knowledge,
and experience in both front-end and back-end environments. Whichever way you choose to specialize, you
will need the appropriate tools to help you work. The first tool most developers add to their
resources is a code editor. Developers also need tools to integrate, build,
compile, and debug code. Integrated Development Environments or IDEs
incorporate some of these additional capabilities beyond just code editing and make it easier
to build and manage your code. Good IDEs support multiple languages and integrate
with management and storage tools like Git and GitHub. Other useful features are custom extensions
and themes for supporting your working style and environment. Examples for code editors and IDEs include
Sublime Text, Atom, Vim, VS Code, Visual Studio, Eclipse and NetBeans. In this brief overview, you learned about: The basic communication between client and
servers. How websites are built and displayed. Front-end development is about what happens
on the client side. Back-end development is about what happens
on the server. Full-stack development includes both front-end
and back-end development. IDEs will help you create and manage your code.
(Music) Internet websites offer lots of different
services, one of the most popular being online shopping. When you explore an online shopping website,
navigating through pages, choosing different product categories, or comparing products,
you are interacting with the front-end of a website. Let us see how the front-end of a website
is developed by front-end developers. For this, we need to understand how a website
is made. To create a website, web developers usually
use Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and JavaScript. These languages
are designed to work in conjunction with each other. HTML is used to create the physical structure
of a website. The physical structure contains elements such
as text, links, images/videos, page dividers and buttons. The HTML code ensures a proper formatting
of all text and image elements so that browsers display the page consistently. The backend developer codes the structure
of the website. A website is like a house which has only been
constructed. Just like we need interior designers to add
style to a space, we need front-end developers to add the necessary glamor and appeal to
a website. When you order products from any website,
you realize that the pages have a pleasing font, attractive colors, and are easy
to navigate. Developers use CSS to create stylish websites. CSS provides front-end developers with a standard
method to define, apply, and manage different sets of style characteristics for a website
and each of its components. CSS ensures uniformity in look and feel, style,
colors, fonts, designs and layouts. So, HTML is used to create the structure and
CSS is used to design it and make it appealing. CSS is also used to create websites that have
cross browser compatibility which means that they are compatible with multiple browsers
and multiple devices such as PC, mobile devices, iPads etc. Online shopping websites are intuitive,
interactive and quick to load. This is where JavaScript comes into the picture. JavaScript is an object-oriented programming
language that is used in conjunction with HTML and CSS to add interactivity to a website. For example, you use HTML to add a login button
to a page, and CSS to style that button. You then use JavaScript to add log-in functionality
to that button. A new front-end development language is Syntactically
Awesome Style Sheets called SASS. It is an extension of CSS that is compatible
with all versions of CSS. SASS enables you to use things like variables,
nested rules, and inline imports to keep things organized. SASS allows you to create style sheets faster
and more easily. Another language that is being used now is
Learner Style Sheets or LESS. LESS enhances CSS, adding more styles and
functions. It is backwards compatible with CSS. Less.js is a JavaScript tool that converts
the LESS styles to CSS styles. Using all these languages, websites are designed
as reactive and responsive. Reactive or adaptive websites display the
version of the website designed for a specific screen size. For example, a website can provide more information
if opened on a PC than when opened on a mobile device. Responsive design of a website means that
it will automatically resize to the device it is being accessed from. For example, if you open up a products website
on your mobile device, it will adapt itself to the small size of the screen and still
show you all the features. A JavaScript framework is an application framework
that is written in JavaScript. Programmers can manipulate the different functions,
use them wherever required and can create device responsive applications. A few examples of several frameworks being
used are: Angular framework: an open-source framework
being maintained by Google. Angular frameworks allow websites to render
the HTML pages quickly and efficiently. It has built-in tools for routing and form
validation. React.js has been developed and maintained
by Facebook. It is a JavaScript library that builds and
renders components for a web page. It is not a complete suite of tools. For example, routing is not a part of this
framework and will need to be added using a third-party tool. React.js only helps build and drop components
into a page. Vue.js is maintained by the community and
its main focus is the view layer which includes user interface, buttons, and visual components. It is flexible, scalable and integrates well
with other frameworks. It is very adaptable. It can be a library,
or it can be the framework. The task of a front-end developer evolves
continuously. The technologies are upgraded constantly and
so front-end developers needs to keep upgrading the websites that they create. The websites that they create should work
in multiple browsers, multiple operating systems and multiple devices.
Welcome to the importance
of back-end development. A front-end developer
creates websites and Cloud applications
using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
to create what the user sees and interacts with in the
client's software. A back-end developer creates and manages all the
resources that are needed to respond to the requests that the user
makes through the client. The back-end developers
tasks focus on enabling this server infrastructure or back-end to process requests, supply data, and provide
other services securely. Front-end and
back-end developers must work together very closely. Each needs to understand the requirements of
the solution and how their respective
parts will interact before the development
process can begin. Throughout the life cycle of
the website or Cloud app, front-end and back-end
developers collaborate to resolve issues and
add functionality. How does the work of a back-end
developer affect you as you are browsing the Internet
or using a Cloud App? Think about it like this. When you're shopping online, what happens to the
data you enter? Your login information, your product searches,
your payment info. The back-end processes
all of these things. The back-end developers
write and maintain the parts of the application
that process the inputs. Let's think about your
experience as you explore an online shopping site
and make a purchase. As you search for products, your search request is
submitted to a web application, which then retrieves
the data from a separate database and serves it back to the
client for display. To facilitate this,
a back-end developer must understand the language that the web application uses, how to query the database
for the correct data, and how to bring
the two together. Even a simple task
like navigating around the site can require the skills
of a back-end developer. Many sites have restricted
areas that are only available to users who have an account and have logged in. User account management,
authentication and authorization can be
the responsibility of the back-end developer too. Once you've decided what
you want to purchase, you must add it to your
card and make a payment. The purchase process
requires you to submit sensitive information such as your address and
credit card number. The back-end developer
must ensure that this data is securely
handled and stored. Front-end client interactions, whether a request for
data, like an image, accepting input from a
user filling out a form, or securing sensitive
information like a credit card number, all require different services
from the backend server. Each request needs to interact with the back-end
in a different way. Back-end developers
use APIs, routes, and endpoints to process
incoming requests. An API is code that
works with data, usually using JSON or XML. APIs have set rules
and structure. A route is a path to a website or page that
the user interacts with. Routes generally take user input and show results based on the input and end point maybe an API or may
simply be a path. When a request
from the front-end arrives at the back-end, it is routed to the
correct service. If the back-end has an endpoint defined for the request
by using routing, the request will be
addressed and replied to. If the endpoint is missing, the server returns a 404 error. Back-end developers must create and maintain this
server side routing. Along with back-end APIs, routes effectively allow
the front-end client to plug into the correct
socket at the back-end. APIs provide a mechanism for
Cloud apps, mobile apps, and other types of software to access resources
from the back-end. To perform all this
back-end development, you will need to
be familiar with at least one back-end language and its associated frameworks. Among the most popular
languages today is JavaScript, which was originally designed
to run in web browsers, adding extra interactivity and dynamic content to web pages. JavaScript is also being used on the back-end with new releases adding
server-side functionality. JavaScript has many frameworks, but two of the most well-known
are Node.js and Express. Python is another
popular language. It's very flexible
and easy to learn. Python has wide functionality. It can be used for
everything from creating webpages to connecting
to a database, to performing data analysis. Two well-known Python frameworks
are Django and Flask. Back-end developers often
work with data and databases. You will also benefit
from learning some SQL. To help handle requests
from databases, back-end developers can use object relational
mapping tools or ORM to connect to the databases and retrieve
the correct data. Although an ORM can hide some of the complexity of
querying databases, it's useful to understand
the fundamentals of databases so that you can troubleshoot any
issues that arise. The day-to-day tasks of a
back-end developer focus on the behind the scenes functionality that
keeps websites, Cloud apps, and mobile
apps up and running. Back-end development covers a
wide range of technologies, from managing user accounts, authentication and
authorization to ensuring that sensitive data is stored
and transferred securely. Back-end developers also
work with databases, retrieving, processing, and
storing data as required. Life for a back-end developer is very challenging
and ever-changing.
Welcome to Teamwork and Squads. After watching this video, you will be able
to define teamwork and describe the advantages of collaboration in software engineering and
describe squads. By definition, a team is a group of people
working together towards a common aim. Within a team, you’ll find a range of different
people with different skills, experience, and talents. Each person can give their attention and effort
to the things that they are good at, and by working alongside others on tasks outside
their current repertoire, they can expand their skillset. Working in a team promotes creativity. Collaborating with others gives you the opportunity
to discuss ideas and challenge one another’s thinking about a subject. Good teamwork is empowering: positive attitudes
and behaviors can impact the rest of the team and create positive results. Working well as a team doesn’t always come
naturally, but there are some things you can consider to help your team succeed. Each member needs to trust and respect the
other members of the team. This generally comes with time, but depends
on all of the members contributing equitably. Defining and agreeing on goals for a project
is essential so that the whole team knows what they are working towards. And you also need to define and agree on roles
to avoid any duplication of effort or missed tasks. Working with each members strengths is important
to make the most of the talent within your team, as is celebrating success and analyzing problems. Communication is vital in a team environment. Ensure that you choose a method that works
for everyone so you know that the whole team is seeing and responding to information. So, what does teamwork look like in software
engineering? Teams often start projects with a kick-off
meeting where they plan how they will complete the project, assign tasks, and agree on goals. Throughout the lifetime of a project, you’re
likely to have whole team and/or sub team meetings to review progress and plans. Design and code reviews can be requested at
the team level and undertaken by whoever has availability at that point in time. Team members might present walkthroughs of
their sections of responsibility to the rest of team so that the whole team has oversight
of all parts of the project. And, key team members will likely present
walkthroughs to stakeholders at various times during the project. When a project is complete, retrospective
meetings may be held to review what went well and what could be improved in future projects. You may have a mentor who may or may not be
in your current project team. You might also be asked to be a mentor. Sometimes team mentoring is used so everyone
can learn from each other. Some groups also have teams working on internal
projects such as defining code standards, maintaining or updating legacy cross-project
code, or reviewing potential new software for usefulness to the team. Good teamwork can bring many benefits to a
project. Working alongside others can encourage creativity
and enable you to take advantage of each person’s strengths while also allowing them to gain
knowledge and skills from other members of the team. When working as part of a team, software engineers
are more likely to adhere to corporate coding standards and regularly document their code. The additional accountability that teamwork
creates results in better quality code, fewer bugs, and more maintainable code. From a software engineer’s point of view,
working as a team can reduce stress because there’s always someone to turn to and get
help from. And having someone to discuss problems with
can help you to increase your understanding and resolve more issues by yourself. By working in a team, each member has a greater
idea of the bigger picture, resulting in a more coherent overall solution. Some organizations that follow Agile development
methodologies may call a team a squad. Typically, a squad is a small team of up to
10 developers. It is likely to consist of: A squad leader who acts as the anchor developer
and coach for the squad. And a few software engineers who develop and
implement the product features and test cases. It may also include one or two user experience
developers or designers. In some squads the developers may work together
in pairs to practice pair programming. You’ll learn more about pair programming
in another video. In this video, you learned that: Software engineering teams meet regularly
throughout the duration of a project. Good teamwork encourages creativity, shares
knowledge, and results in better quality code. Squads are small teams used in agile development.
Welcome to Teamwork and Squads. After watching this video, you will be able
to define teamwork and describe the advantages of collaboration in software engineering and
describe squads. By definition, a team is a group of people
working together towards a common aim. Within a team, you’ll find a range of different
people with different skills, experience, and talents. Each person can give their attention and effort
to the things that they are good at, and by working alongside others on tasks outside
their current repertoire, they can expand their skillset. Working in a team promotes creativity. Collaborating with others gives you the opportunity
to discuss ideas and challenge one another’s thinking about a subject. Good teamwork is empowering: positive attitudes
and behaviors can impact the rest of the team and create positive results. Working well as a team doesn’t always come
naturally, but there are some things you can consider to help your team succeed. Each member needs to trust and respect the
other members of the team. This generally comes with time, but depends
on all of the members contributing equitably. Defining and agreeing on goals for a project
is essential so that the whole team knows what they are working towards. And you also need to define and agree on roles
to avoid any duplication of effort or missed tasks. Working with each members strengths is important
to make the most of the talent within your team, as is celebrating success and analyzing problems. Communication is vital in a team environment. Ensure that you choose a method that works
for everyone so you know that the whole team is seeing and responding to information. So, what does teamwork look like in software
engineering? Teams often start projects with a kick-off
meeting where they plan how they will complete the project, assign tasks, and agree on goals. Throughout the lifetime of a project, you’re
likely to have whole team and/or sub team meetings to review progress and plans. Design and code reviews can be requested at
the team level and undertaken by whoever has availability at that point in time. Team members might present walkthroughs of
their sections of responsibility to the rest of team so that the whole team has oversight
of all parts of the project. And, key team members will likely present
walkthroughs to stakeholders at various times during the project. When a project is complete, retrospective
meetings may be held to review what went well and what could be improved in future projects. You may have a mentor who may or may not be
in your current project team. You might also be asked to be a mentor. Sometimes team mentoring is used so everyone
can learn from each other. Some groups also have teams working on internal
projects such as defining code standards, maintaining or updating legacy cross-project
code, or reviewing potential new software for usefulness to the team. Good teamwork can bring many benefits to a
project. Working alongside others can encourage creativity
and enable you to take advantage of each person’s strengths while also allowing them to gain
knowledge and skills from other members of the team. When working as part of a team, software engineers
are more likely to adhere to corporate coding standards and regularly document their code. The additional accountability that teamwork
creates results in better quality code, fewer bugs, and more maintainable code. From a software engineer’s point of view,
working as a team can reduce stress because there’s always someone to turn to and get
help from. And having someone to discuss problems with
can help you to increase your understanding and resolve more issues by yourself. By working in a team, each member has a greater
idea of the bigger picture, resulting in a more coherent overall solution. Some organizations that follow Agile development
methodologies may call a team a squad. Typically, a squad is a small team of up to
10 developers. It is likely to consist of: A squad leader who acts as the anchor developer
and coach for the squad. And a few software engineers who develop and
implement the product features and test cases. It may also include one or two user experience
developers or designers. In some squads the developers may work together
in pairs to practice pair programming. You’ll learn more about pair programming
in another video. In this video, you learned that: Software engineering teams meet regularly
throughout the duration of a project. Good teamwork encourages creativity, shares
knowledge, and results in better quality code. Squads are small teams used in agile development.
Welcome to Insiders' Viewpoints: Teamwork
in Software Engineering. In this video, we will hear from experts discussing
how teamwork is important in software development, and how teams work together. Yeah, so teamwork is very, very important
in the world of software development. As a software engineer, you're not just going
to be sitting at your desk coding all day. One of the most important aspects of working
on a team or on an engineering team is communication, and knowing how to collaborate and speak with
your team members about the code you've written, especially if you're going to a UX designer,
and say, Hey, here's what I can do. And your spec is a bit off. Can we massage your your specs a bit just
so we can meet the code coding requirements. Incredibly important, I while I think it's
possible for a single person to engineer and deploy and run software, I, I think doing
it as a team is both more impactful and gets you more potential to do bigger and greater
things, I think it's also just a more fulfilling process, when you're when you're, you're building
something with a group of individuals, I think, you know, with without the support structure,
it's hard to build something and support it and maintain it just by yourself. So teamwork, to me, is essential, because
we're talking to each other all day. And we're not only talking to our tech leads
or senior engineer, we're talking to product managers, we're talking to UX designers, we're
talking to business analysts, we're talking to data analysts, and so on and so forth. You have the support system, you have diversity
of opinions and perspectives in terms of how you go about building it, it's more satisfying,
you kind of can take larger risks, because you're, you're in it together, and you're
there to support each other, I think the celebration of of a job well done is is a lot more, you
know, it's a lot more fulfilling when you're when you're doing that with someone else. But I think it just gives you both kind of
a larger range of scope and a larger sort of risk portfolio, if you will, and you're
able to, I think just, you know, get a lot more done a lot more checks and balances and
really gives you you know, less likely, there's a less likely chance that you're gonna miss
something, or you're gonna make a mistake, there's a lot of a lot of support there. And so every project I've worked on has had
at least three other people that I have needed to communicate with and support to be a reliable
resource for them to go to them for questions. Like I always have to be talking to somebody
about something. So teamwork is crucial. Like, you can't, you can't work in an isolated
silo forever, at some point, you have to talk to someone else. Building a project product takes a lot of
people, a lot of us come together to make a whole and to get the product shipped to
production so our users can use it. And so teamwork is imperative.
Welcome to Pair Programming. After watching this video,
you will be able to describe pair programming and compare different styles and list the benefits and challenges of pair programming. Pair programming is an extension of teamwork where two developers work side-by-side at one computer. They can either be physically at the same computer or work virtually via video link or shared screens. The former is the preferred option, but virtual pair programming can also be productive. Pair programming is a type of Agile development where two developers can plan and discuss their ideas continually as they create a solution, generally resulting in a better end product. There are various styles of pair programming: Driver/navigator style is the most common style, where one developer is the driver, typing in the code, and the other is the navigator, reviewing the code as it’s written and giving directions where to go next. The navigator also keeps an eye on the bigger picture of the overall solution. When working in this way, it’s important to regularly swap roles to keep both of the pair engaged across the whole task. Ping-pong style incorporates test-driven development. For each task, one developer writes a failing test and then the second developer writes code to pass that test. For each new task, they swap roles, so regularly changing who writes the test and who writes the implementation. The two developers work together at the end of each task refactoring the successful code to refine and improve it. Strong style pair programming is a good way for junior software engineers to learn from more experienced ones. The defining rule for this is that for an idea to go from your head to the computer, it must go through someone else’s hands. So, the more experienced of the pair is the navigator and the driver learns from witnessing their implementation and thought processes. For this to work well, the driver shouldn’t challenge any ideas until the full implementation is complete so as not to interrupt the flow of ideas from the navigator. Now pair programming has many benefits. It’s a good way to share knowledge and skills from one developer to another or between the two and a great way for a new team member to get up to speed on a project. As well as enhancing the technical skills of the pair, it’s also a good way of building soft skills such as communication and problem solving. Having two sets of eyes on the code often results in fewer typos, logic errors, and bugs. And it enables code reviews to be done on the fly. While this doesn’t replace formal code reviews, it does enable another layer of review. Having two people thinking about a problem can result in multiple initial ideas, but is likely to result in the optimal approach being chosen earlier in the process. And although pair programming can take longer than individuals writing the same solutions, it’s likely to result in better code with less time spent reviewing, testing, and bug fixing. There are also a few challenges to overcome. Working in a pair requires long periods of focus which can be exhausting for the two programmers. And personal or other work commitments can impact the pair schedule. Sometimes one of the pair can end up controlling the entire process, resulting in a more typist/programmer pairing which doesn’t benefit from any of the positives of pair programming. And at other times, individual personalities may not work well together. When multiple sets of pair programmers are present, their discussions can result in a noisy environment for the other workers in the room. In this video, you learned that: Pair programming is an Agile development technique where two developers work alongside each other. There are multiple styles of pair programming. And pair programming builds technical and soft skills, results in better quality code and solutions, and increases overall efficiency.
Welcome to the introduction to the software
development life cycle. After watching this video, you will be able
to describe what the software development life
cycle is, explain its history, and discuss some key advantages of using it. The Software Development Life Cycle, known
as the SDLC, is a systematic process to develop high-quality
software in a predictable timeframe and budget. The goal of the SDLC is to produce software
that meets a client’s business requirements. The SDLC defines phases of the software development
process that encompass their own process and deliverables. It is a cycle of planning, design, and development
that can be implemented as an iterative approach to software development. Adherence to the SDLC minimizes risks and
costs to the development of high-quality, deployable software. The software development life cycle began
to take shape in the mid-1960s as software development began to necessitate a more detailed
approach because of its growing complexity. The SDLC led to a more deliberate approach
as large corporations needed to manage complex business systems requiring heavy computational
resources. In its initial conception, it used what is
called the “waterfall method” to manage projects where the development of software
follows a linear pattern through discrete stages. The SDLC has since been adapted, however,
to more iterative methods in response to addressing customer needs and shifting requirements. Waterfall and other approaches to software
development will be discussed in another lesson. There are some key advantages for businesses
in following the SDLC. The first advantage is that it gives development
teams a process to follow rather than using an ad hoc approach to improve efficiency and
reduce risks. Secondly, there are discrete phases to the
SDLC. Each phase is well defined so that team members
know what they should be working on and when. The phases of the SDLC will be discussed in
another video. Because of the well-defined phases, it facilitates
communication between the customer, other stakeholders, and the development team. The SDLC offers an overview of the process,
so stakeholders know where they fit in to that process. Also, since each phase is discrete, cross-domain
teams know when they have completed their tasks and when development can move to the
next phase. The SDLC provides room for iteration where,
at the end of a cycle, the process can circle back to incorporate additional requirements
as needed. Problem solving is incorporated early in the
cycle so problems are addressed in a timely fashion and can be addressed in the design
phase rather than during coding. Finally, each team member has a well-defined
role which reduces conflict and overlapping responsibilities. In this video you learned that the SDLC provides a systematic process for
software development. Its initial development in the 60s and 70s
was driven by the need for a systematic approach because of the growing complexity of software. Key advantages of the SDLC include: A roadmap to the software development process,
helping to reduce risk and improve efficiency, Increased communication between the team and
stakeholders, Clearly defined and understood responsibilities
for each team member, and The ability to be used iteratively, allowing
for changing requirements.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Pair Programming. In this video, software engineers will discuss
their experiences with pair programming and share their thoughts about the benefits and
potential challenges associated with this way of working. First, we'll begin by asking about their experiences
with pair programming and about the benefits they associate with it. At every job I've ever had, there have come
times where you pair up with someone else, you get someone else sitting next to you at
a computer, you're sitting next to them at their computer, you're looking at a problem
together, you're thinking about it. Yes, I have actually, some of the benefits
are definitely working with an engineer who might be more of a senior engineer, because
they have a lot of insight. And they obviously have a lot of experience
doing what you're probably trying to figure out how to do. And it's really great when it's someone who
can both guide you but also kind of take take a step back and not take over at the same
time. I think pair programming can can be very beneficial. I think. If you're when you're working with someone
together, it's an opportunity to learn I think pair programming can be very great in circumstances
where someone is new to a team. New to a programming language new to a
set of tools, or a development environment that is new to them, sitting next to someone
who's an expert, I think can both help you ramp up more quickly, it can help the
the team itself, sort of understand where you are, in terms of your own knowledge
and journey and help put you in a place to both succeed and utilize you in your skills
as best as possible. It does help you get real time feedback,
you don't necessarily have to wait for code to be sent out to be reviewed, and you can
kind of, you know, brainstorm together in real time on the actual implementation
of it. Ultimately, I try to keep in mind that
the goal of pair programming is that everyone has inherent blind spots in the way that they
think. And that the way that they approach a
problem. And if you are talking to somebody else, they
can point out what your blind spots are. And they're going to have different blind
spots than you as well. So you can point out their blind spots. What do you think are the
drawbacks and challenges of pair programming? I think that can be a con sometimes when
you're working with another engineer and you're trying to pair program with someone who kind
of like takes over and then doesn't allow you to do your part or to learn especially
if they kind of like already know how to do something. So it's kind of like a double-edged sword. On the one hand, you want to get that practical
experience of practice of pair programming and you want to get that experience from someone
else. But at the same time, you want to make
sure that you're learning. I personally find pair programming to
be a little frustrating. Because the ways I go about solving problems
can be very different than the ways other people go about solving problems. And it's not that I have some special, unique,
wonderful technique, it's just that everyone's brain works differently. And watching someone else go through their
workflow of how to solve a problem, they're not clicking the exact same buttons that you
are. And that can get very frustrating to me. It's like, why are you using your mouse
because all those things, there's keystrokes or like, you could be doing this so much faster. And so I find it a challenge to do pair programming
sometimes. You actually
need calendar time. So you need to be able to dedicate time to
sit together and work together and have an aligned schedule. You both you can either be physical, could
do it virtually, but you need to make the time to do it. Pair programming, some can
come with some overhead in terms of getting off the ground. So if you have a tight time crunch, competing
priorities, maybe just not enough, there might be not enough time in the schedule to allow
for it, that can be one of the cons. That it can while you can get long term,
I think efficiency benefits from you know, built, did writing the code together, because
then support in the future will be easier because you have more people who know how
the code was written and what the intent was. So there are definitely long term
benefits. But there could be you know, some short term
costs to it. So there are trade offs in that sense.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Pair Programming. In this video, software engineers will discuss
their experiences with pair programming and share their thoughts about the benefits and
potential challenges associated with this way of working. First, we'll begin by asking about their experiences
with pair programming and about the benefits they associate with it. At every job I've ever had, there have come
times where you pair up with someone else, you get someone else sitting next to you at
a computer, you're sitting next to them at their computer, you're looking at a problem
together, you're thinking about it. Yes, I have actually, some of the benefits
are definitely working with an engineer who might be more of a senior engineer, because
they have a lot of insight. And they obviously have a lot of experience
doing what you're probably trying to figure out how to do. And it's really great when it's someone who
can both guide you but also kind of take take a step back and not take over at the same
time. I think pair programming can can be very beneficial. I think. If you're when you're working with someone
together, it's an opportunity to learn I think pair programming can be very great in circumstances
where someone is new to a team. New to a programming language new to a
set of tools, or a development environment that is new to them, sitting next to someone
who's an expert, I think can both help you ramp up more quickly, it can help the
the team itself, sort of understand where you are, in terms of your own knowledge
and journey and help put you in a place to both succeed and utilize you in your skills
as best as possible. It does help you get real time feedback,
you don't necessarily have to wait for code to be sent out to be reviewed, and you can
kind of, you know, brainstorm together in real time on the actual implementation
of it. Ultimately, I try to keep in mind that
the goal of pair programming is that everyone has inherent blind spots in the way that they
think. And that the way that they approach a
problem. And if you are talking to somebody else, they
can point out what your blind spots are. And they're going to have different blind
spots than you as well. So you can point out their blind spots. What do you think are the
drawbacks and challenges of pair programming? I think that can be a con sometimes when
you're working with another engineer and you're trying to pair program with someone who kind
of like takes over and then doesn't allow you to do your part or to learn especially
if they kind of like already know how to do something. So it's kind of like a double-edged sword. On the one hand, you want to get that practical
experience of practice of pair programming and you want to get that experience from someone
else. But at the same time, you want to make
sure that you're learning. I personally find pair programming to
be a little frustrating. Because the ways I go about solving problems
can be very different than the ways other people go about solving problems. And it's not that I have some special, unique,
wonderful technique, it's just that everyone's brain works differently. And watching someone else go through their
workflow of how to solve a problem, they're not clicking the exact same buttons that you
are. And that can get very frustrating to me. It's like, why are you using your mouse
because all those things, there's keystrokes or like, you could be doing this so much faster. And so I find it a challenge to do pair programming
sometimes. You actually
need calendar time. So you need to be able to dedicate time to
sit together and work together and have an aligned schedule. You both you can either be physical, could
do it virtually, but you need to make the time to do it. Pair programming, some can
come with some overhead in terms of getting off the ground. So if you have a tight time crunch, competing
priorities, maybe just not enough, there might be not enough time in the schedule to allow
for it, that can be one of the cons. That it can while you can get long term,
I think efficiency benefits from you know, built, did writing the code together, because
then support in the future will be easier because you have more people who know how
the code was written and what the intent was. So there are definitely long term
benefits. But there could be you know, some short term
costs to it. So there are trade offs in that sense.
Welcome to Introducing Application Development
Tools. Getting your Cloud App from the ideas stage
to fully formed, written, and deployed is a long process, but there are many tools which
will help you along the way. A cloud application developer’s workbench
includes: Version Control, Libraries, and Frameworks. When many developers are working on the same
project, knowing what order changes were made, thereby creating a new version of the source code,
becomes overridingly important. Version control systems keep track of what
changes were made when and by whom and resolve any conflicts between changes. For developing your code version control can
be useful even when you are the sole contributor on a project. Properly used, it can give you a way to revert
to an older version of your code if something goes wrong and gives you some basic information
about how the code developed over time. Version control functionality is generally
tied to the storage system you are using, which is why a code repository is recommended,
even for beginners. Git and GitHub are extremely popular for source
code storage and management. Git stores files in repositories where you
can track changes, split code into different branches for more focused development, and
then merge them back into the main body of code. Libraries are collections of code, like standard
programs and subroutines, that you can use within your code. For example, you might want to include a navigational
feature, like a carousel – a code library can supply you with the code for that so that
you don’t have to spend the time and energy creating one from scratch. Being able to reuse code in this way makes
developing your app much quicker and easier. Multiple code libraries can be integrated
into your existing project. As you discover a need for a specific function
or feature, you can research an appropriate library. You determine when to call the required method
as needed. The control returns to the program flow once the subroutine is finished. When you use a code library, you are in control. Code libraries are generally used to solve
a specific problem or add a specific feature set. Either way, there are lots for you to choose
from, so do your research. Here are some examples of code libraries: jQuery is a JavaScript library that simplifies
DOM manipulation. Email-validator is a small library that checks
an email address is correctly constructed and valid. Apache Commons Proper is a repository of reusable
Java components. Frameworks provide a standard way to build
and deploy applications. You can think of a framework as being a skeleton
that you can extend by adding your own code, providing a scaffold on which to build your
apps. The framework you intend to use must be determined
early in your development planning and used right from the beginning. New frameworks can’t be incorporated into
an existing project. Your chosen framework dictates the architecture
of your program and controls the program flow. The framework determines which subroutines
and methods will be called when. When working with a framework, there is a specific structure
that you must follow. The framework calls on your code,
rather than you calling on the framework. Frameworks are less flexible than libraries,
allowing you less control, but they do provide good standardization and can help you create
efficient code. To use an analogy, if you are a carpenter
building a house, the framework is the frame that you add to – bricks on the outside,
plasterboard on the inside, and so on. The frame acts as a guide for how the house
is constructed. Here are some examples of frameworks: AngularJS is a JavaScript-based framework
for dynamic web applications. Vue.js is a JavaScript framework focused on
the user interface. Django is a framework that uses Python for
web development. Frameworks define the workflow that you must
follow, unlike libraries, which allow you to call functions as and when required. When using a framework, it can sometimes feel
like you, as a developer, are not in full control of the development process. This sense of the framework and its predefined
workflow controlling the development process is referred to as inversion of control. Frameworks that have a lot of control are
known as opinionated – they have opinions on how their workflow should be used and remove
a lot of the decisions you would otherwise have to make about how code is written, the
location of files, and even file names. Frameworks often include their own libraries,
which they call when needed. Inversion of control allows you to create
standardized apps, and takes away a lot of the tedious configuration work, so you can
focus on the code for your app. In this video, you’ve learned about some
of the tools that you will utilize in your career as a developer including: Version control, libraries, and frameworks.
Welcome to More Application Development Tools. Let’s look at some tools which can help
you get your app built and deployed: CI/CD, Build Tools, Packages,
and Package Managers. CI/CD refers to the practices of continuous
integration and either continuous delivery or continuous deployment. CI/CD is a best practice for devops teams
enabling developers to deliver frequent changes reliably. Implemented through a build-automation server,
Continuous Integration (CI) ensures that all the code components work together smoothly. A CI build environment enables you to integrate
newly developed code frequently, at least every day, if not every hour, depending on
how quickly the project changes. Continuous delivery (CD) begins where CI ends.
The CI process automatically builds and tests your code, then CD deploys all code changes
in a build to a testing or staging environment. A build tool transforms your source code into
the binaries needed for installation. Build tools organize your source code, set
compile flags, and manage dependencies. They are most important in environments where
there are many inter-connected projects, with multiple developers contributing to each project. In these environments, it can be very difficult
to keep track of what changes were made, in what order, what dependencies exist, and what
needs to be incorporated in the next build, so automation is key to keeping everything
running smoothly. Build automation can automate a wide variety
of tasks that developers do in their day-to-day activities like: Downloading dependencies. Compiling source code into binary code. Packaging that binary code. Running tests. And deployment to production systems. You can initiate a build from the command
line or from an IDE. There are two categories of Build Tools widely
in use: Build-automation utilities, which generate
build artifacts like executables, by compiling and linking source code. Build-automation servers,
which execute build-automation utilities on a scheduled or triggered basis. Some examples of build tools are: Webpack – a module bundler for JavaScript. Babel – a JavaScript compiler. And Web Assembly - a binary instruction format
that runs in your browser. Now that you have your app developed and tested,
you’re ready to deploy. But how does that happen? The app needs to be simple and trouble-free
for the user to install, so a commonly used technique is to collect all the necessary
files and bundle them together into a package. Packages are archive files that contain the
app files, instructions for installation, and any metadata that you choose. They have their own metadata too, including
the package description, package version, and any dependencies, like other packages
that need to be installed beforehand. Once you have bundled your app into a package,
you can use a package manager to distribute it. Package managers take care of the tasks of
finding, installing, maintaining or uninstalling. software packages at the user's request. Package management systems: Coordinate with file archivers to extract
package archives. Verify checksums and digital certificates
to ensure the integrity and authenticity of the package. Locate, download, install, or update existing
software from a software repository. And manage dependencies to ensure a package is
installed with all packages it requires. Some commonly used package managers for each
of the major platforms are listed here: On Linux - Debian Package Management System
(DPKG). Red Hat Package Manager (RPM). On Windows - Chocolatey. On Android - Package Manager. On MacOS - Homebrew and MacPorts. Any libraries or utility code
that is developed as part of the application is managed with the cloud application package
managers. Here are some examples of package managers
for popular languages: For Node.js/Javascript - npm. For Java - Gradle and Maven. For Ruby - RubyGems. For Python - Pip and Conda. In this video you’ve learned about some
of the tools that you will utilize in your career as a developer , including: CI/CD, Build Tools, Packages, and Package
Managers.
Welcome to Introduction to Software Stacks.
After watching this video, you will be able to describe software stack terminology, identify some commonly used software stacks, and list the benefits and challenges of different software stacks. A software stack is a combination of technologies that includes software and programming languages. Developers use a software stack to create applications and solutions such as web and mobile apps. The set of individual technologies is stacked in a hierarchy and work together to support the execution of an application. The higher levels in the stack provide tasks or services for the user and the lower levels interact with the computer hardware. Software stacks typically include: Front-end technologies such as programming languages, frameworks, and user interface tools. And back-end technologies such as programming languages, frameworks, web servers, app servers, operating systems, messaging applications, and databases. You might hear the term technology stack used in place of software stack. However, a technology stack is a broader term that includes hardware and infrastructure like virtual machines, containers, storage, and load balancers, as well as the software stack. The simplest implementation of a software stack consists of a presentation layer, a business logic layer, and a data layer. However, more complex applications use more complex stacks, which could include software for virtualization, scheduling and orchestration, runtime environments, database connectivity, networking, and security. The software and services that make up a stack can be from a variety of sources: from internal resources, to third party providers, to cloud providers. There’s no formal definition of the structure of a stack, the only rule being that the software and services included must support an application’s development, functionality, or deployment. When you’re using a software stack, you don’t have to use all of the available layers, you only need to use those which are relevant to your solution. There are many different examples of software stacks, The Python-Django stack, uses the popular Python programming language alongside the Django web framework. This combination is all open source and commonly used for large-scale, fast-changing web applications. The Ruby on Rails stack, uses the Ruby programming language with a server-side web application framework. Ruby on Rails is great with JSON or XML for data transfer and HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for front-end development. And the ASP.NET stack includes Microsoft technologies such as the ASP.NET MVC framework, the IIS web server, SQL Server, and Azure. You’ll learn more about the LAMP, MEAN, MEVN, and MERN stacks next. The LAMP stack runs on the Linux operating system. It uses the Apache HTTP or Web server, MySQL databases, and the PHP programming language. LAMP is an example of an early incarnation of a software stack designed for building websites and cloud applications. All its constituent parts are open source and loosely coupled, so it’s easy to swap different options into the stack. For example, you could choose to use PostgreSQL instead of MySQL for your database server, changing the LAMP stack to be the LAPP stack. Similarly, you could use the Python programming language instead of PHP. The MEAN stack uses a MongoDB database with an Express.js web application server framework, the Angular.js framework for front-end JavaScript development, and the Node.js platform for server-side scripting. The MEAN software and services are platform agnostic, free, and open source. There are other stacks related to the MEAN stack, including: The MERN stack which replaces Angular.js with React, and is a flexible and high-performing framework for developing front-ends. And the MEVN stack which replaces Angular.js with Vue.js. Vue is a lighter-weight JavaScript framework with less capabilities, but it can provide better performance than Angular.js. Let’s consider some advantages and disadvantages of three different software stacks: MEAN, MEVN, and LAMP. MEAN is a free and open-source JavaScript software stack used for building web applications. The biggest advantage of the MEAN stack is that all of the parts use JavaScript, so developers only need to know a single language. The stack is also open source which means the cost is lucrative to businesses and there is a lot of documentation and re-usable code for developers to use. Development can happen quickly because Node.js has a huge collection of free, reusable module libraries. However, the MEAN stack may not be well-suited for large-scale applications. When using Express.js, the business logic often resides on the server preventing the reuse of some services like batching operations. And MongoDB is great for unstructured data, but it doesn’t provide the same level of functionality as a relational database. The MEVN stack is a web stack like MEAN, but it uses Vue.js instead of Angular.js for user interfaces. MEVN and MEAN stacks have similar advantages, but Vue.js is a much newer technology and doesn't have as many reusable libraries as Angular.js. Like MEAN and MEVN, the software and services in the LAMP stack are open source meaning there are lots of reusable chunks of code available to the developers. And because LAMP is one of the oldest software stacks it’s easy to find support and reusable solutions. However, because the Linux operating system is an integral part of the stack, it isn’t as flexible as MEAN and MEVN which are platform agnostic. MySQL is a relational database, so the stack cannot take advantage of unstructured data. The other disadvantage of the LAMP stack is that the back-end runs on PHP, Perl, or Python, whereas the front-end uses JavaScript and HTML, making it harder for developers to switch back and forth than the MEAN and MEVN stacks which use JavaScript throughout. In this video, you learned that: Software stacks are a combination of technologies for creating applications and solutions. Software stacks can range from simple three-layered systems to many layers. There are numerous types of software stacks for different developers and environments. The biggest advantage of the MEAN stack is that all of the parts use JavaScript, so developers only
need to know a single language. And, the LAMP stack on Linux works well for relational data.
Welcome to Introduction to Software Stacks.
After watching this video, you will be able to describe software stack terminology, identify some commonly used software stacks, and list the benefits and challenges of different software stacks. A software stack is a combination of technologies that includes software and programming languages. Developers use a software stack to create applications and solutions such as web and mobile apps. The set of individual technologies is stacked in a hierarchy and work together to support the execution of an application. The higher levels in the stack provide tasks or services for the user and the lower levels interact with the computer hardware. Software stacks typically include: Front-end technologies such as programming languages, frameworks, and user interface tools. And back-end technologies such as programming languages, frameworks, web servers, app servers, operating systems, messaging applications, and databases. You might hear the term technology stack used in place of software stack. However, a technology stack is a broader term that includes hardware and infrastructure like virtual machines, containers, storage, and load balancers, as well as the software stack. The simplest implementation of a software stack consists of a presentation layer, a business logic layer, and a data layer. However, more complex applications use more complex stacks, which could include software for virtualization, scheduling and orchestration, runtime environments, database connectivity, networking, and security. The software and services that make up a stack can be from a variety of sources: from internal resources, to third party providers, to cloud providers. There’s no formal definition of the structure of a stack, the only rule being that the software and services included must support an application’s development, functionality, or deployment. When you’re using a software stack, you don’t have to use all of the available layers, you only need to use those which are relevant to your solution. There are many different examples of software stacks, The Python-Django stack, uses the popular Python programming language alongside the Django web framework. This combination is all open source and commonly used for large-scale, fast-changing web applications. The Ruby on Rails stack, uses the Ruby programming language with a server-side web application framework. Ruby on Rails is great with JSON or XML for data transfer and HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for front-end development. And the ASP.NET stack includes Microsoft technologies such as the ASP.NET MVC framework, the IIS web server, SQL Server, and Azure. You’ll learn more about the LAMP, MEAN, MEVN, and MERN stacks next. The LAMP stack runs on the Linux operating system. It uses the Apache HTTP or Web server, MySQL databases, and the PHP programming language. LAMP is an example of an early incarnation of a software stack designed for building websites and cloud applications. All its constituent parts are open source and loosely coupled, so it’s easy to swap different options into the stack. For example, you could choose to use PostgreSQL instead of MySQL for your database server, changing the LAMP stack to be the LAPP stack. Similarly, you could use the Python programming language instead of PHP. The MEAN stack uses a MongoDB database with an Express.js web application server framework, the Angular.js framework for front-end JavaScript development, and the Node.js platform for server-side scripting. The MEAN software and services are platform agnostic, free, and open source. There are other stacks related to the MEAN stack, including: The MERN stack which replaces Angular.js with React, and is a flexible and high-performing framework for developing front-ends. And the MEVN stack which replaces Angular.js with Vue.js. Vue is a lighter-weight JavaScript framework with less capabilities, but it can provide better performance than Angular.js. Let’s consider some advantages and disadvantages of three different software stacks: MEAN, MEVN, and LAMP. MEAN is a free and open-source JavaScript software stack used for building web applications. The biggest advantage of the MEAN stack is that all of the parts use JavaScript, so developers only need to know a single language. The stack is also open source which means the cost is lucrative to businesses and there is a lot of documentation and re-usable code for developers to use. Development can happen quickly because Node.js has a huge collection of free, reusable module libraries. However, the MEAN stack may not be well-suited for large-scale applications. When using Express.js, the business logic often resides on the server preventing the reuse of some services like batching operations. And MongoDB is great for unstructured data, but it doesn’t provide the same level of functionality as a relational database. The MEVN stack is a web stack like MEAN, but it uses Vue.js instead of Angular.js for user interfaces. MEVN and MEAN stacks have similar advantages, but Vue.js is a much newer technology and doesn't have as many reusable libraries as Angular.js. Like MEAN and MEVN, the software and services in the LAMP stack are open source meaning there are lots of reusable chunks of code available to the developers. And because LAMP is one of the oldest software stacks it’s easy to find support and reusable solutions. However, because the Linux operating system is an integral part of the stack, it isn’t as flexible as MEAN and MEVN which are platform agnostic. MySQL is a relational database, so the stack cannot take advantage of unstructured data. The other disadvantage of the LAMP stack is that the back-end runs on PHP, Perl, or Python, whereas the front-end uses JavaScript and HTML, making it harder for developers to switch back and forth than the MEAN and MEVN stacks which use JavaScript throughout. In this video, you learned that: Software stacks are a combination of technologies for creating applications and solutions. Software stacks can range from simple three-layered systems to many layers. There are numerous types of software stacks for different developers and environments. The biggest advantage of the MEAN stack is that all of the parts use JavaScript, so developers only
need to know a single language. And, the LAMP stack on Linux works well for relational data.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Tools and
Technologies. In this video, we will hear from experts discussing their favorite tools and
technologies for software engineering projects. Our team uses Git and GitHub every
single day for all of our projects. We use it for tracking code. We use it for
collaboration and we use it for tracking bugs, features, and tasks for all of our projects. I believe most open source projects are now
using Git. Every project I've contributed to, whether open source or closed has used it Git's
true value is most apparent when you're working on a team with multiple people, at which
point you'll be glad to have things like feature branches and pull requests. But even
if you are working on a project where you're the sole committer, I recommend using Git, and
in particular GitHub for the Community aspect So if you are a front end developer, if
you understand JavaScript and picking up backend using a framework, like Node JS is not
that much of a stretch, I actually started building, you know, static websites, and then slowly
learned how to how to put in dynamic content using JavaScript. And then I had to use Java, or
PHP to build my back-end systems in on the server. For front end development, you're primarily
using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. If you're very front-end focused, you might want to try
out an IDE built for that specific purpose, such as brackets if you want to keep
things more general, I recommend VS Code. In either case, I recommend installing IDE
extensions for automatic formatting and linting of your code. By using prettier and eslint these
will help you catch issues as early as possible for back end development the tools
are quite a bit more varied so it's hard to give specific recommendations. But if
you choose Node.js, you'll be able to use some of these same tools that I mentioned for front
end development. Otherwise, I recommend just looking into what IDE extensions are available
and what linters and auto formatters are available JavaScript is a very powerful language. It lets
you do pretty much anything you can imagine, including shooting yourself in
the foot if you're not careful. The practices I typically follow with JavaScript
include proper scoping of variables and functions. And writing unit and integration
tests for my features. React JS was developed at Facebook very
popular. Angular is a framework operated by Google that allows for development
of single page applications. SPA's jQuery is possibly the most popular and oldest
library out there, created by John Resig in 2006, and jQuery is frequently used with both Angular
and React. Backbone is a lightweight JavaScript library that is very popular in terms
of back-end languages and frameworks. Node.js is an open source server side platform
built on the Google Chrome JavaScript engine. It uses an asynchronous single threaded
architecture that allows it to serve a very large number of concurrent connections. Flask
is a framework used on Python that is popular with Pythonistas and the Spring framework based on
Java has been around for years and remains popular We use React JavaScript framework it is better
than Angular in terms of speed and efficiency. React is easier to learn than other JavaScript
frameworks, which makes its adoption in the team easy. It also resolves, it also resolves
the problems related to cross browser issues. Another great feature of React is the use
of JSX. JSX is helpful when working with UI inside the JavaScript code. It helps react to
show more useful error and warning messages. My favorite front end JavaScript framework would
be React JS, I love the whole component driven design and architecture that you have then
that you have to follow when you create a React JS based application. I
also like the idea of, you know, props and states to hold your,
the state of your application. By using Express JS for back-end development,
we are able to scale applications quickly. We can code both front-end and back-end
with the help of JavaScript easily by using Express JS. Express JS is supported with the
Google V8 engine with the help of which you will be able to get higher performance
without any lag or error in processing. It also supports the caching features,
so you would not have to re-execute the codes again and again. Moreover, moreover, it
will help web pages to load faster than ever When working with Node.js, I'll,
I'll give you two of my favorite packages that I use on a daily basis. So
first is making requests to web services. I use a library like Axios, that helps me create
these requests with the right headers, and also provide me with callback functions and or promises
to be able to handle the responses that come back. My second package would be when
I'm working with databases, I'll use NPM packages, more likely than
not to talk to an external database, regardless of if it's, if it's a
relational database, or a no SQL database. So in writing JavaScript, I really like to take
advantage of the features and ESX, because it can make my code look cleaner, easier
to read, and, and just more beautiful, such as the arrow functions, or the dot dot
dot operator. And so I encourage you to, after learning JavaScript, dive
into ESX a bit and have fun with it.
Welcome to interpreted and compiled programming
languages! After watching this video, you will be able
to: Identify interpreted programming languages, and identify compiled programming languages. What are programming languages? Programming languages help us tell computers
what to do. Computers don’t use human language; they
use their own language, called machine code. Machines understand binary code, that is 1s
and 0s. So, to make communicating with computers easier,
we have human-readable programming languages. Two common categories for programming languages
are: Interpreted and compiled. These are broad categories, and there are
many programming languages that are classified under compiled languages and interpreted languages. The purpose of the project helps a developer
determine which programming language is best. Interpreted language is also commonly referred
to as scripted or scripting language. Programs written in interpreted or scripted
language, like Python and HTML, run through the programming interpreter on your computer’s
operating system or in your web browser. Remember that programming languages are in
human-readable code, so, the interpreter takes the human-readable
scripted code and then translates it into machine code, enabling the computer to complete
the requested task. As computers and web pages have changed and
advanced, some interpreted programming languages are outdated, and they are not as useful or
relevant Some other languages are more versatile and
easier to learn, which means they are preferred over other scripting languages and used more
often. All interpreted programming languages need
an interpreter to translate the source code. Translators are built into your web browser
or they require a program on your computer to translate the code. Several different interpreted programming
languages exist. Some examples of common interpreted programming
language types are: • JavaScript, a simpler scripting language
that runs through the web browser interpreter • Python, a language that is popular because
it is easy to learn and use for developers • Lua, a general purpose, lightweight game
scripting language that is easy to learn and use • HTML, a markup language used for formatting
web pages Another category of programming languages
is the compiled programming languages. Compiled programs are applications and programs,
like your music app or your operating system, that you run on your computer or device. The programs are packaged --or compiled--
into one executable file. They are usually larger programs. Compiled programs are used to help solve more
challenging problems, like interpreting source code. Compiled programming languages are often referred
to more simply as programming languages. A compiler program creates a program file,
which runs the software. Simply put: It piles the code into one file
that runs when you double-click on the app on your device. The program runs faster and it can be done
repeatedly. The source code is converted from the programming
language to machine code. Then it is compiled into one executable file. Finally, the program runs when you select
the icon or file on your device. Some examples of compiled programming languages
are: C and its variations C++ and C#, which are
used in many operating systems, like Microsoft Windows, Apple’s macOS, and the open-source
operating system Linux. Java is another compiled programming language. It shouldn’t be confused with the interpreted
language JavaScript. The Android OS is written in Java because
it works well across computing platforms. Let’s look at this process: When you update to a new version of your operating
system, like Microsoft Windows, your device might download an installation program. That program is made up of many files. The files are written in a compiled programming
language. These files give instructions to your device
in machine code. The compiled program is running on your device. A compiled program that you commonly use is
your device’s operating system, such as Linux, Microsoft Windows, Apple’s macOS,
or Android. Your operating system is written in a compiled
programming language, like C, C++, C#, or Java. In this video, you learned that: Interpreted programming languages run scripts
that are repetitive and need to be run often. Interpreted programming languages are more
versatile and can be used across platforms as long as there is the correct interpreter. Some examples of interpreted programming languages
are JavaScript, Python, and HTML. Compiled programming languages are for more
complex programs that complete larger tasks. Compiled programming languages are used for
creating executable files that can run directly from your device. And some examples of compiled programming
languages are C and Java.
[MUSIC] Welcome to comparing compiled and
interpreted programming languages. After watching this video,
you will be able compare interpreted and compiled programming languages and
discuss interpreted and compiled programming languages. How do developers choose
a programming language? Developers choose which programming
language is best to use depending on what they have the most experience with and
what they trust, what is best for their users, and
what is the most efficient to use. What are interpreted and
compiled programming languages? Interpreted programming languages are used
to create a scripted source code for smaller tasks. The source code goes
through an interpreter. The interpreter is built into
the operating system on a computer or on a web browser. Compiled programming languages
are used to create files. The files are executable files. They are then grouped in programs that
you can run on a computer or device. Interpreted programming languages
are also called script code or scripting, because they
are used to automate tasks. Interpreter programs read and execute the source code line by line
like someone would read a script. Each time the program runs, the source code needs to be executed
to receive the desired output, and source code written in one of the
interpreted programming languages runs on almost any operating system
with the right interpreter. For example, imagine you have a client
requesting information about webpage views for last month. Which type of programming language
would be the most appropriate and efficient to create a program for
this task? You would use one of the interpreted
programming languages to write code for a script. The script would retrieve
the webpage views data and then put it into a table for
the client to read. Compiled programming languages are also
called programming languages for short. They are used for more complex
programs that complete larger tasks, like running a spreadsheet
program on your computer. A compiled programming language is
used to write a larger program, usually installed on your
device as an executable file. Writing code in a compiled
language does take longer, but the payoff is that
the programs code runs faster, because compiled programs
are installed on the device. And once the program is coded, the compiled program is grouped
into one downloadable file. Remember that client who wanted
information about webpage views? Now, they want a spreadsheet program
to view and manage the data. A programmer could use the C programming
language to create a compiled program like Microsoft Excel. So what are the major differences between
interpreted programming languages and compiled programming languages? First, there's interpreted programming. These programs are available across
multiple platforms or in the cloud. The scripting languages
are easier to learn and use, and they're better for websites because
they tackle smaller, repeated processes. Then there's compiled programming. These programs are available to users
with the same operating system coded in the same language. However, compiled programming languages
are more difficult to learn and use, because they are larger programs with
more parts, and they're better for larger tasks, like running
the operating system on your computer. To better understand more
of the similarities and differences of programming languages,
let's take a look at some examples. A few of the most common programming
languages are C, C++ and C#. C is a compiled programming language. C is the original language,
and C++ and C# are variations. C and its variations
are case-sensitive languages. The C programming language
is the basis for Windows and other common operating systems, and
it takes more time to learn and use for coding but requires less
memory and the code runs faster. Another common programming
language is Java. It is a compiled programming language. It is also a case-sensitive,
object-oriented programming language. The Java virtual machine or JVM is
required to run the code written in Java. It is the primary programming language for
some operating systems, like the Android OS. And a benefit of Java is that
it is a cross-platform language, which means it runs the same code
on macOS, Windows, and Linux. Python is an example of
an interpreted programming language. It is also referred to
as a scripting language. Python is a popular general-use,
case-sensitive programming language. It is used with Windows, macOS, and
Linux operating systems, and with server-side web app code, and it requires
the Python engine to interpret code. JavaScript is another interpreted
programming language. It is a scripting language that runs
on the client side in web browsers. JavaScript is case sensitive. Simple scripts are run with HTML. Complex scripts are run in separate files. And while it sounds similar,
it shouldn't be confused with Java, the compiled programming language. Another example of a common
programming language is HTML. It is an interpreted programming language. HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language. HTML is mostly case insensitive
with some exceptions, and it uses tags to format webpages
on client-side web browsers. In this video, you learned that interpreted programming
languages create source code that runs through an interpreter in your device's
operating system or on your web browser. Compiled programming languages create
executable files that are grouped in programs on your device. Compiled programming languages like C and
Java are used to write larger programs, like operating systems and
other executable files. And interpreted programming languages
like Python and HTML are used to write code that can complete repetitive tasks
within a web browser or a computer. [MUSIC]
Welcome to “Query and Assembly
Programming Languages.” After watching this video, you will be able to: Compare high-level and
low-level programming languages. Describe query languages, and describe assembly languages. Let’s explore query and
assembly programming languages. But first, we need to
categorize programming languages into two levels – high-level and low-level. A high-level programming language is more sophisticated and uses the common English language to
make its code more understandable and to increase the speed of
coding and debugging programs. Examples of high-level programming
languages include query languages such as Structured Query Language (or SQL),
structured programming languages such as Pascal, and object-oriented programming
languages such as Python. In contrast, a low-level programming language uses a set of symbols to represent machine code. And examples of low-level programming
languages include assembly languages such as ARM, MIPS, and X86. A query is a request for
information from a database. The database handles the query and searches
its tables for the information requested and returns the results to the querying entity. When querying a database, it is important that
both the user application making the query and the database handling the query
are speaking the same language. In programming terms, writing
a query means using predefined and understandable instructions
to make the request to a database. This is achieved using programmatic code and
this is what we refer to as a query language. A query language may also be referred
to as a database query language. By far the most prevalent query language for
database queries and database management is SQL. However, there are other query languages available such as AQL, CQL, Datalog, and DMX. In addition to SQL databases, there is another type of database called
NoSQL, which stands for Not Only SQL. The key difference between these two types
of databases is their data structures. While SQL databases are relational and use structured, predefined, schemas, NoSQL databases are non-relational in nature and have dynamic schemas for unstructured data. A query language is predominantly
used to request data from a database or to create, read, update, and delete data
in a database. You will likely see the term CRUD used to refer to these last
four key database operations. Typically, a user enters a command to either make
a query or perform a CRUD operation using syntax that is understandable to the database
management system hosting the database. And a database typically consists
of structured tables made up of multiple rows and columns of data. When a user performs a query, the database retrieves the data from the
relevant rows and columns in the table and arranges it into some sort of order, ready to be returned and
presented in the query results. Database queries are either a select command, or an action command, such as CREATE,
INSERT, UPDATE, or a mixture of both. The term “statement” is more commonly
used to describe these commands. Select queries request data from a database, whereas action queries
manipulate data in a database. Query statements can also be used to
perform other administrative functions such as creating users and modifying permissions. This table lists some of the
most common SQL query statements. Here are some simple syntax
examples of common SQL statements. As mentioned earlier, assembly languages
are less sophisticated than query languages, structured programming languages, and
object-oriented programming languages. As an assembly language uses a simple
set of symbols to represent the 0s and 1s of machine code, it is categorized
as a low-level programming language. Assembly languages are closely tied to the
processor architecture from hardware manufacturers and therefore, each CPU type will
typically have its own assembly language. For this reason, there are a large number
of assembly languages in use today, which vary among hardware manufacturers. Assembly languages use a simple
readable format for their statements, and they are entered one line at a time, with one statement per line. Assembly language statements use
the standard format shown here. In this syntax all fields in
curly brackets { } are optional, and the statement has two main parts. The first part is the
instruction (or the mnemonic), and the second part includes the
parameters (or the operands). There may also be optional useful comments
added on the end of the statement. One other key difference with assembly languages is that they are translated using an assembler
instead of a compiler or interpreter, and one statement translates into
just one machine code instruction, as opposed to high-level languages
where one statement can be translated into multiple
machine code instructions. Assemblers translate assembly language
into machine code using mnemonics such as Input (INP), Output (OUT),
Load (LDA), Store (STA), and Add (ADD). The statements consist of opcodes that tell
the processor what to do with the data, and operands that tell the
processor where to find the data. In this video, you learned that: Query languages, structured programming languages, and object-oriented programming languages are
categorized as high-level programming languages. Assembly languages are categorized
as low-level programming languages. A query language is predominantly used to request data from a database or to
manipulate data in a database. The most prevalent query language
for database queries and database management is Structured Query Language (SQL). Select queries request data from a database, whereas action queries
manipulate data in a database. You also learned that: Assembly languages use a simple set of symbols
to represent the 0s and 1s of machine code. Assembly languages are closely tied to the processor architecture
from hardware manufacturers. Assembly languages are translated using an
assembler instead of a compiler or interpreter. And assembly language instructions have a one-to-one association with
their machine code counterpart.
Welcome to the Phases of the Software Development
Life Cycle. After watching this video, you will be able
to name the phases involved in the SDLC, describe each phase, and identify several tasks associated with each
phase. There are generally six phases in the SDLC
process, planning, design, development, testing, deployment,
and maintenance. Each phase is discrete meaning that tasks
from a previous phase do not overlap with tasks in the next phase. The original SDLC was conceived as a traditional
waterfall method where the phases are linear, but have since been adapted to introduce iteration
so that shifting requirements can be accommodated. Waterfall and other approaches to software
development will be discussed in another video. Note that some organizations may have different
names for each stage. For example, “planning” may be called
“requirements” or “strategy” or “analysis”. Also, some organizations may have additional
or fewer stages. In the first stage of the SDLC, the planning
phase, requirements are gathered, analyzed, documented and prioritized. When planning a software solution, the following
factors must be considered: users of the solution the overall purpose of the solution, data inputs and outputs, legal and regulatory compliance, risk identification, quality assurance requirements, allocation of human and financial resources,
and project scheduling. As part of the planning process, labor and material costs are estimated and weighed against time constraints. Also, project teams are identified, and roles
of each team member are proposed. If stakeholders are struggling to define requirements,
often the development team may produce prototypes during the planning stage to tease out those
requirements. A prototype is a small-scale replica of the
end product used to get stakeholder feedback and establish requirements. A prototype is used to test basic design ideas. Though prototyping usually occurs during the
planning stage, prototyping can occur at various phases of the SDLC whenever requirements need
to be reconsidered or clarified as the project develops. After requirements have been gathered, they
are combined into a document called a software requirements specification, or SRS,
document. The SRS needs to be clearly understood and
approved by all stakeholders. The developers are also involved at this stage
so they can gain a clear understanding of these requirements. Requirements and the SRS will be discussed
in more detail in a later video. In the design phase, the requirements gathered from the SRS are used to develop
the software architecture. Several team members work together at this
stage to design the architecture. The architecture is reviewed by the stakeholders
and team. And during this phase, prototypes can be designed. A prototype is a preliminary mock-up of the
system, or parts of the system, used for demonstration purposes. The document created in this phase is called
a design document, and is used by developers during the next phase, which is the development
phase. The development phase, sometimes called the
“building" phase or the "implementation" phase, is when the developers start the coding
process once the design document is completed. The project planners use the design document
to determine and assign coding tasks. This phase often requires the use of programming
tools, different programming languages, and software stacks. Organizations may also have standards or guidelines
that need to be followed. The testing phase is next in the process once
the coding is complete. And some large projects have dedicated testing
teams. Code needs to be thoroughly tested to ensure
it is stable, secure, and meets the requirements outlined in the SRS. Testing can be manual, automated, or a hybrid
of both. Product bugs are reported, tracked, and fixed,
and code is retested until the software is stable. Some common levels of testing include unit testing, integration testing, system testing, and acceptance testing. Each of these testing levels will be described
in further detail in another video. The deployment phase is where the application
is released into the production environment and made available to users. This can also happen in stages— first, it is released onto a user acceptance
testing, also called UAT, platform and once the customer signs off on the functionality, it is released to production. This approach can be used for making software
available on a website, mobile device app store, or a software distribution server on
a corporate network. Finally, the maintenance phase happens once the code
has been deployed into a production environment. This phase helps to find any other bugs, identify user interface issues, or UI for
short, and identify other requirements that may not have
been listed in the SRS. Code enhancements can also be identified at
this stage. If bugs are discovered in this phase that
were missed during testing, these errors may need to be fixed for high-priority issues
or incorporated into the requirements as part of a future software release and the process
can start over again. In this video, you learned that The SDLC can be divided into six phases. Planning
involves requirement gathering and development of the SRS. The architecture is developed during the design
phase and the design document is created. The Development phase is when coding takes
place, and then during the testing phase issues with the code
are found and fixed if possible. Deployment is when the code is released to
the production environment. And finally, in the maintenance stage feedback
is collected from stakeholders, other UI issues may be identified, and code enhancements suggested. And this information then can be fed into another
software development cycle if necessary.
Welcome to Understanding Code Organization
Methods. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Explain why code organization methods are
important when programming. Define the different code organization methods and identify the benefits of using code organization
methods. Organizing is very important when it comes
to reading, maintaining, and configuring code. Well-planned-out software design, usually
using one of several methods, helps programmers write cleaner and more reliable code. Planning out code in a visual format helps
improve the code base once it is written and reduces the chance of bugs and errors throughout
the lifespan of a project. Organizing code before programming has a positive
impact on the quality of the program and helps provide a consistent and logical format to
use while coding. There are two main methods of organizing code:
flowcharts and pseudocode. The main difference between pseudocode and
a flowchart is that the former is a basic, high-level description of an algorithm. An algorithm is a step-by-step sequence of
solving a given problem. A flowchart is a pictorial representation
of an algorithm showing the steps as boxes of various shapes and colors connected by
arrows that indicate their order. Flowcharts are used in designing or documenting
a process or program. Pseudocode provides a beneficial bridge to
the project code because it closely follows the logic that the code will. Pseudocode also helps programmers share ideas
without spending too much time creating code, and it provides a structure that is not dependent
on any one programming language. Flowcharts are especially beneficial for smaller
concepts and problems, while pseudocode is more efficient for larger programming projects. And flowcharts provide an easy method of communication
about the logic and offer a good starting point for the project because they are easier
to create than pseudocode in the beginning stages. A flowchart is the graphical or pictorial
representation of an algorithm using different symbols, shapes, and arrows in different sizes
and colors to demonstrate a process or a program. The main purpose of using a flowchart is to
analyze different methods of solving a problem or completing a process. Several standard symbols are applied in a
flowchart, and you can easily highlight certain elements and the relationships between each
part in the process. Some traditional flowchart shapes used for
programming concepts are: Start/End (a capsule), Process (a rectangle), Decision (a diamond), Data (a parallelogram), And Connecters (as arrows). A simple flowchart to represent how to add
two numbers is easy to create. The procedure starts with the capsule, and
has a connector, or arrow, progressing to the next step, the data input (the parallelogram),
in this case, input n1 and input n2. Then, another connector, or arrow, goes to
the process (the rectangle) of adding the two inputs, Sum = n1 + n2. Another connector, or arrow, moves to the
data (the parallelogram) showing the results, in this case, Print Sum. The last connector, or arrow, moves to the
end of the process, the end capsule. Flowchart software is an application that
provides various functionalities to create flowcharts by providing the ability to drag
shapes into the desired order using an easy-to-use editor. Flowchart software also provides team collaboration
for creating flowcharts. Some of the well-known flowchart software
programs include: Microsoft Visio, Lucidchart, Draw.io, And DrawAnywhere. Pseudocode is an informal type of programming
description that does not require any strict programming language syntax or underlying
technology considerations. System designers write pseudocode to ensure
that programmers understand a software project's requirements and align code accordingly. Pseudocode is used for creating an outline
or a rough draft of a program that summarizes a program’s flow but excludes underlying
details. Pseudocode acts as the bridge between the
programmer’s brain and the computer’s code executor that provides the ability to
plan instructions that follow a logical pattern, without including all the technical details. Pseudocode is a great way of getting started
with software programming as a beginner without worrying about coding syntax. Pseudocode helps both programmers and non-programmers
agree about the program’s goal and the basics of how the task should be done. Here’s one example of pseudocode written
to check if the user entered an odd or even number: The next example displays the pseudocode written
in C++: There are many advantages of using pseudocode
over flowcharts. The main benefit of pseudocode is that it’s
simple and explains exactly what each line of an application should do. The coder can focus more on logic than on
program language syntax. Removing the distractions of coding when using
pseudocode makes the code development stage easier. Words and phrases in pseudocode represent
lines of basic computer operations that simplify translation from the pseudocode algorithm
to the specific programming language. Pseudocode allows programmers working in different
computer languages to interact with each other. Pseudocode can be reviewed by different development
groups easier than real code. Pseudocode is easier for non-programmers to
read and enables quick and easy translation to any computer language. Writing pseudocode is more concise and easier
to modify, so changes to the design can be easily incorporated. And lastly, unlike some flowcharts, pseudocode
is usually less than one page. In this video, you learned that: Organizing and planning out software design
enables programmers to write cleaner and more reliable code, and organized code is very
important from a readability, maintainability, and scalability standpoint. Two main methods of organizing and planning
software code are by developing flowcharts or writing pseudocode. A flowchart is a pictorial representation
of an algorithm showing the steps as boxes of various kinds connected by arrows that
indicate their order. And the main goal of pseudocode is to explain
exactly what each line of a program should do, making the code construction phase easier
for the programmer.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Types of
Languages. In this video, we will hear from experts discussing
if they prefer developing in compiled or interpreted programming languages. most of the time, it doesn't really matter. It just comes down to personal preference,
like what are you going to get moving on the fastest. there are certain situations where it will
make a difference, if you're compiling ahead of time versus interpreting on the fly, if
you're trying to eke out, like very small, incremental performance benefits, I prefer compiled code or compiled language
that's compiled language just because I have a more of a guarantee that it will well maybe
not necessarily work, but will do what I thought it will do. And at least we'll deploy properly. When when when being rolled out. but usually no, it doesn't, doesn't make
that much of a difference to either the development process or the like deployment and use process. There. They, they definitely have advantages and
disadvantages to each of them. But most of the time, doesn't make that much
of a difference to what I'm doing. I think, interpreted languages can you know,
there's a lot of like flexibility there. And often you can do more creative things. And then you know, the compiler, it's sort
of stops, the buck stops with the compiler, and you can't really avoid compiler errors
with the compiled language with interpreted there's more interesting runtime possibilities
there. So I think it really depends on what environment
you're developing for, or what your your risk factor is, when it comes to being okay with,
with potentially buggy code being out in the wild. What do you think are the benefits of object-oriented
programming over procedural programming? Anything can be an object. And object-oriented design puts hierarchies
and patterns onto those things. And that structure can make it easy to keep
designs in mind. And keep in mind how the different objects
interact with each other. It's also very easy in object-oriented programming
to paint yourself into a wall where you have put too much structure around everything. And you now have this like explosion of useless
boilerplate code. So there's a bit of a, not catch 22. But just a balance that you need to find in
between how much structure should your thing have? How much flexibility should it have? And how much should your intentions be imposed
on that design and the way that people interact I think procedural programming can be, you
know, feels more mathematical and more sort of, like pure engineering, in some sense. And I think that that also can lend itself
well to someone who is really looking to not just build software, but really wants to sort
of feel like they're engineering the code, in some sense. It can feel like you're, you're kind of like,
in the machine if you will. So, I know that's a weird answer. But it's, it's I think it doesn't, you know,
depending on how your brain works to one can lend itself more easily than the other. So, but I love I think it's worth trying them
both out. if you get super object-oriented, you can
get a little to a little too prescriptive with the designs, I think. So that's just whenever you're using objects,
it's just a thing to keep in mind that you can go, you can go too far with it. But where that line of too far is kind of
depends on exactly what it is that you're building, sometimes there, sometimes the sky's
the limit, just regulate everything. And sometimes the amount of flexibility that
you require actually does mean that you can't really have an object of any sorts. Most of those situations should be pretty
weird, those would be on the extremes. But most of the time, a few simple objects
will do a lot of good, no matter what the rest of your system looks like. Yeah, I think object-oriented programming
to me is, for me, personally, I think it does lend itself well to like real-world mappings
and data models. And, you know, the sort of classic examples
of you might, in your first object-oriented software, demo, build something like a library
that has books, and it has a checkout. So, like you get there's physical objects
that the way you learn it is very much sort of you think about the software as something
real worlds that helps you make the jump from building something physical with your hands
to building something with, with bits and bytes.
Welcome to Branching and Looping Programming
Logic. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Describe the two types of programming logic Define Boolean expressions and variables and list the differences between branching
and looping. There are two major types of programming logic:
branching and looping. Both types use Boolean expressions and variables: A Boolean expression is a type of programming
statement with only two values, either "true" or "false." And variables have assigned values that are
passed into a function or subroutine within a more extensive program. Computers use Boolean logic to make decisions.
The computer takes one action if a Boolean expression is true and a different action
if the expression is false. Typically, a program consists of instructions that
tell the computer what to do and data that the program uses when it is running. A variable
has a value that can change, depending on conditions or information passed to the program.
Boolean logic, along with variables, form the basis of programming. Branching logic is where a computer program
makes a decision following a different set of instructions, depending on whether certain
conditions are met during the program's execution. Each possible code pathway creates another
branch. The branch of code that runs depends on the values assigned to the parameters of
the branching procedure. There is no limit to the number of branches to implement complex
logic. The values of these parameters may be input
by the user or generated by the output from a previous procedure. Branching contains constructs that occur and
are processed to determine the path a program takes when running. Branching statements (also known as constructs)
allow the execution flow to jump to a different part of the program. The common branching
statements used within other control structures include: if, if-then-else, Switch, and GoTo. The if statement is a decision-making construct
that guides a program to make decisions based on specified criteria. The if statement executes
one code set when a specific condition is met (TRUE) or another code set if the condition
is not met (FALSE). The if-then-else is a conditional construct
that executes its substatement, which follows the “then” keyword. This only occurs if
the provided condition is true. The if-else statement extends the “if”
statement by specifying an action if the “if” (true/false expression) is false.
With the if-else statement, the program will execute either the true code block or the
false code block, so something is always performed with an if-else statement. In computer programming languages, a switch
statement is a type of selection control mechanism used to allow the value of a variable
or expression to change the control flow of program execution via search and map. GoTo is a statement found in many computer
programming languages that performs a one-way transfer of control to another line of code.
In contrast, a function call typically returns control. Now, let’s look at the logic of looping
programming. A loop is a sequence of instructions that continually repeats until reaching a
specific condition. Typically, a particular process is performed, such as retrieving and
changing data, and then some conditions are checked, such as whether a counter has reached
a prescribed number. If it has not, the next instruction in the sequence is to return to
the first instruction in the series and repeat the sequence. If the condition is reached,
the next instruction "falls through" to the next sequential instruction or branches outside
the loop. A loop is a fundamental programming idea commonly used in writing programs. There are three basic loop statements: While For And Do-while. In a While loop, a condition is evaluated
before processing the body of the loop. If a condition is true then and only then the
body of a loop is executed. In a For loop, the initial value is performed
only once, then the condition tests and compares the counter to a fixed value after each iteration,
stopping the For loop when false is returned. In a Do-while loop, the condition is always
executed after the body of a loop. It is also called an exit-controlled loop. In this video, you learned that: There are two major types of programming logic:
branching and looping. Both types of logic use Boolean expressions and variables. Boolean expressions have only two possible
values, either true or false, and variables have assigned values that are passed into
a function or subroutine within a more extensive program. Variables have values that can change,
depending on conditions or information passed to the program. And branching is deciding what actions to
take, while looping is deciding how many times to perform a certain action.
Welcome to Introduction to
Programming Concepts – Part 1. After watching this video, you will be able to: Describe the purpose and use
of identifiers in programming. And Describe the purpose and use
of containers in programming. To fully understand software programming, there are some fundamental programming
concepts you need to know first. The first concepts you will
look at are identifiers. Software developers use an identifier
to reference a program component such as a stored value, a method, an interface, or
a class, by assigning a custom-named label to it. If the identifier stores data, then the data
values in the program can be one of two types: either a constant, or a variable. A constant is a data item whose value
does not change within a program. This could be a numerical constant
such as the mathematical value of Pi, or it could be a text string that remains
constant such as a player’s name within a game. Constants are also referred
to as ‘named constants.’ You assign a value to a
constant when you define it. For example, you might want it to refer to a
numerical value within your program such as Pi, or a cost price, or a rate of tax, and
then, rather than repeatedly retyping the same numerical value, you can just
declare a constant for that value instead, and name it something meaningful like
‘pi_value’, or ‘cost_price’, or ‘tax_rate’. There are a couple of major benefits
to using constants in your programs; one is for ease of readability in your code, and the other is that if the
specified value changes in the future, you only need to change it once on the constant, rather than finding every instance of that
numerical value within your code and changing it. The other type of identifier used
in programming is a variable. As the name suggests, this kind
of identifier is not constant; its value can change during
the program’s execution, such as a user entering
their age in an application or a high score in a game. Variables can be strings of text, numerical
values, or any other type of data. Using a variable as an identifier is a useful way
to refer to program items that are unknown to you, such as a username, a service,
or a file name for instance. If you don’t use a variable,
then you will need to hard code all the names and values in your program,
which is not considered best practice. Variables can be declared and assigned a data
type and initial value as they are defined, or you can decide not to assign an
initial value when you define a variable, and instead have the value assigned
later by instructions within the program. In addition to the identifier
data structures already discussed, there are also special kinds of identifiers that
can reference multiple elements in a program, and these are referred to as containers. Being able to specify multiple
elements means that you don’t have to create a variable for every individual element. This makes it faster and more efficient. For example, if you only want
to store six numerical integers, then you could argue that you could
just create six variables, one for each. But what if you need to store 1,000
integers or more? In such a case, defining 1,000 variables would obviously be an
unwieldly and inefficient programming technique, so in this case you would use a container. There are two types of containers to specify
multiple elements: arrays and vectors. The simplest of these container types is an array. In an array, a fixed number of
elements of the same type are stored in sequential order, starting from index zero. When you declare an array, you specify the data type
of the values it contains, such as an integer, or boolean, or a string, and then the maximum number
of elements it can contain. The syntax for declaring an array
is to specify the data type first, then the name of the array, then the
maximum size of the array in square braces. In contrast to arrays that have a fixed
size, vectors have a dynamic size, and they will automatically
resize themselves as you add elements to them or remove elements from them. For this reason, you may also see
them referred to as dynamic arrays. Because they are dynamic in nature, vectors
take up more memory space than arrays, and their elements also take a little
longer to access than elements in an array, as they are not stored in
sequential memory locations. The syntax for declaring a vector is to
specify the container type of the vector first, then specify the data type in angle brackets, then the name of the array. Note that because
it is a vector, you do not need to specify a maximum number of values it can contain
because the size is not fixed, it is dynamic. In this video, you learned that: Software developers use an identifier
to reference a program component. If an identifier stores data, then it
can either be a constant or a variable. A constant is a data item whose value
does not change within the program. A variable is not constant; it can
change during the program’s execution. In an array, a fixed number of
elements of the same type are stored in sequential order, starting from zero. And vectors have a dynamic size, and they automatically resize themselves
as elements are added or removed.
Welcome to Introduction to
Programming Concepts – Part Two. After watching this video, you will be able to: Describe the purpose and use
of functions in programming, and describe the purpose and
use of objects in programming. Next, let’s look at the fundamental concept of functions. Functions are a consequence of the modular programming software development methodology that encourages the separation of a program
into multiple modular components, where each performs a
specific task within a program. So, a function is essentially a piece of
structured, stand-alone, and reusable code that will perform a single specific action. This enables software developers
to take a substantial, complex program and divide it into smaller, more manageable, and focused pieces. Although some programming languages may refer to them as something else, such as subroutines, procedures, methods, or modules, most modern programming languages
refer to them as functions. Functions take in data as an input,
then process the data, and then return the result as an output. There are essentially two types of functions. Standard library functions are the built-in
functions provided by the programming language. Common examples include the ‘If’,
‘Else’, ‘While ’ and ‘Print’ functions. But programming languages also allow
you to write your own functions. And once you’ve written a function,
you can use it over and over again. The way that the blocks of code that
make up a function are identified is different across programming languages. Some use braces, some use
begin and end statements, and others use indentations for example. There are a few steps to using functions. The first thing you need to do
is define (or create) a function. When you define a function,
you provide a function keyword, then give the function a unique name, and you provide the statements that
make up the body of the function. Once a function has been defined, it
then needs to be called (or invoked). When you call a function, the specified actions within the function
are performed using any specified parameters. While defining and calling functions
are common to all programming languages, some programming languages, such as C and C++ , also require you to declare a function. Next, let’s look at the concept of objects. Understanding what objects are is key to understanding object-oriented programming. Object-oriented programming (or OOP) is a programming methodology that is focused
on objects rather than functions, which is what procedure-oriented
programming is focused on. The objects themselves will contain data
in the form of properties (or attributes) and code in the form of procedures (or methods). The key distinction between
the two methodologies is that where procedural programming uses
methods to operate on separate data structures, OOP packages them both together, so an
object operates on its own data structure. Consider the real-world objects in your life such as your car, bike, TV, or your washing machine, and ask yourself
the following two questions: “What states can the object be in?” and “What behaviors can the object perform?” When you think about your answers
to these questions, you will find that the answers to
these questions vary across the objects. More complex objects will typically
have more potential states they can be in and
will be able to perform more behaviors. In programming, a software object is similar to a real-world object, conceptually speaking, in that they too consist of states (or
properties) and behaviors (or methods). Software objects can be anything, such
as a Windows service, a user account, a database table, or a system folder. Objects store their properties in fields
(referred to as variables in some programming languages), and expose their behaviors through methods
(referred to as functions in some programming languages). In this video, you learned that: • A function is a piece of structured,
stand-alone, and reusable code that will perform a single specific action. • The defining and calling of functions
is common to all programming languages. • Object-oriented programming
is a programming methodology that is focused on objects
rather than functions. • Software objects consist
of properties and methods.
Welcome to Introduction to Software Architecture.
After watching this video, you will be able to: Describe what software architecture is; Explain the importance of well-designed software architecture; Explain how software architecture impacts design decisions such as tech stacks and production environments; and List several artifacts from software architecture design. Software design and documentation take place during the design phase of the SDLC. Software architecture, simply put, is the organization of the system. Software architecture serves as a blueprint for the software system that the programmers use to develop the interacting components of the software. The architecture comprises the fundamental structures of a software system and explains the behavior of that system. The architecture defines how components should interact with each other, the operating environment, and the principles used to design the software. The software architecture captures early design decisions that are often costly to change once implemented. A software’s architecture addresses non-functional aspects of the application such as performance, scalability, maintainability, interoperability, security, and manageability. Well-designed software architecture is important for a number of reasons. First, it balances the differing needs of the stakeholders and serves as a basis for communication among team members. Next, the architecture represents the earliest design decisions, and those decisions conflate other coding implementation decisions later in the development process. Also, the well-designed architecture allows for agility due to changing requirements. A well-organized architecture increases the lifespan of the software system even when implementation details change. Architectural design also guides the choice of technology stacks used for the system. Remember that architecture addresses non-functional capabilities so choosing stacks that address these requirements is paramount in the design phase. Recall that a tech stack is a list of all the technologies including software, programming languages, libraries, and frameworks that will be used to create the system. The architects must be aware of the stack’s advantages and disadvantages to anticipate development needs. Much like blueprints communicate design decisions to the builders of a house, there are also several artifacts produced during the architectural design phase that are used to communicate the software design to the stakeholders. These artifacts include a software design document, or SDD, an architectural diagram, and unified modeling language, or UML, diagrams. The SDD is a collection of technical specifications that indicate how the design should be implemented. It provides a functional description of the software and design considerations such as assumptions, dependencies, constraints, requirements, objectives, and methodologies. The architectural diagram displays components, their interactions, their constraints, and their confines. It displays the architectural patterns used in the design. Architectural patterns are general, reusable solutions to commonly occurring problems and will be discussed in more detail in an upcoming video. UML diagrams are diagrams that communicate structure and behavior using common programming language agnostic notation. UML diagrams will also be discussed in more detail in another video. Another topic to be discussed in this module as it relates to software architecture includes production deployment considerations. The architecture drives choices about the environment in which the software is released. The production environment is comprised of the infrastructure that runs and delivers the application to the end-user such as the servers, load balancers, and databases. In this video you learned that: Software architecture functions as a blueprint and represents the underlying organization of the application. A good architectural design is important because it serves as a basis for communication among team members. Software architecture represents the earliest design decisions, is hard to change once development starts, and accommodates changing requirements during development. Architectural design influences technology stack choices and the production environment and Artifacts resulting from the design include the SDD, the architecture diagram, and UML diagram.
Welcome to software design and modeling. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Compare and contrast the terms “structured
design” and “behavioral models.” Describe Unified Modeling Language (or UML)
and its advantages when designing software. And, discuss the purpose of an interaction
and a state transition diagram. Software Design is a process during which structural components and behavioral attributes of the software are
documented before it can be developed. One of the key activities of the design process
is modeling the software to express its design. This involves creating visual or diagrammatic representations
of the bigger software solution, and its sub-components, as well as the interactions between them. This can be done using simple flowcharts or
more standardized methods like UML. A software system can be construed in terms
of structural elements. Structured design conceptualizes a software problem into well-organized
smaller solution elements called modules and sub-modules. Structured design stresses organization in
order to achieve a solution. A well-structured design should contain modules that are cohesive
and loosely coupled. Cohesion means that all functionally related
elements are grouped together. Coupling is the communication between different
modules. For a system to be loosely coupled the modules should be weakly associated so
changes in one component have minimal effect on another. Loose coupling is an architectural
principle often used in service-oriented architectures and microservices based architectural patterns,
which will be discussed later in the module. The diagram shows a simplified example billing
system. Modules are arranged in a hierarchy and communicate with each other. The rectangles represent the modules and sub-modules. You can see that “billing” is the main
module, and the other rectangles are sub-modules to the main billing module. In
this example the sub-modules are “insurance verification,” “submit claim,” and “output
total.” The arrows represent the flow of the data
in the system. Behavioral models describe what a system does,
without explaining how it does it. The overall behavior of a system can be communicated
through behavior models. There are a number of different UML diagrams
that can be used to communicate the behavior of a system. We will discuss two such diagrams, a state transition diagram, and an interaction diagram. When developing a complex software system
with interconnected modules, it can be difficult to remember the relationships, behaviors,
and hierarchies among different elements. UML, which stands for Unified Modeling Language,
is a way to visually represent the architecture, design, and implementation of complex software
systems. UML is a standardized modeling language that can be used throughout development processes. UML diagrams can be divided into two classes:
either structural or behavioral. UML is programming language agnostic, so software
developers can readily interpret and apply it to their work no matter which language
they are developing in. There are several advantages of using UML
to communicate architecture, behavior, and structure with development teams. The biggest
advantage of UML diagrams is that they allow you to plan out features before any coding takes
place which saves time and money. Secondly, the diagrams can
be used to bring new team members or developers switching
teams to get up to speed quickly. Also, the diagrams can be used to facilitate
communication between technical and non-technical audiences more easily. And finally, having a visual representation of
the system allows developers to navigate the source code because they can see the relationships
among modules. So there are many types of UML diagrams but generally, UML diagrams can be
classified as either behavioral or structural. We will discuss behavioral models next and
then object oriented-design. The behavior of a system can be explained
and represented with the help of a UML diagram called a state transition diagram. The state
transition diagram is a collection of states and events that describes the different states
that a system has and the events which cause a change of state in the system. The diagram
shown is an example of a state transition diagram that models a patient going to see
a doctor at a clinic. The different states include “waiting,” “testing,” and “with the doctor.” The arrows represent
possible transitions from one state to another and names the event that triggers the transition. An interaction diagram is used to model the
dynamic nature of a software system. They help visualize objects and their relationships.
A sequence diagram, which is the type of interaction diagram shown here, displays the communication
between objects with respect to time. This example shows a patient making an appointment
in an online portal. This is another example of a behavioral UML diagram. In this video you learned that: Structured design breaks down a software problem
into well-organized smaller solution elements. Behavioral models describe the behavior of
the system without explaining how the system implements the behavior. Developing UML diagrams saves time and money
by helping developers quickly get up to speed on a project, plan features in advance of
coding, and help developers navigate source code easily. A state transition diagram is a behavioral
model containing a collection of states and events that describe the different states
of a system and the events which cause a change of state. And finally, an interaction diagram describes how interacting
objects communicate.
Welcome to Insiders' Viewpoints: The Importance
of Design and Software Architecture. In this video, we will hear from experts discussing
the importance of design and software architecture in a software engineering project. Design and architecture are crucial. If you don't know where you're going, how
do you know what you need to do now? You always need to know what you should, what
your program needs to be prepared to handle, and the system that it's operating within. If you are running a series, if you're running
a bunch of applications that are all co-hosted on the same server, you can make certain assumptions
about the ways those services can interact with each other that do not hold. I also sometimes think of architecture and
orchestration. So you can you can have like a beautiful,
really nice sounding instrument. But if it's not in sync with the rest of the
orchestra, it's going to sound like a complete cacophonous mess in the end. So you really need to think about the bigger
picture. Sustainability, whether you're, you know,
what you're building actually makes sense in the larger sort of ecosystem. And every time if you spend the time to write
your code, and then you figure out why it doesn't work, you've wasted a lot of time
writing that code, maybe you've learned some things, it's not a total waste. But you've spent a lot of time that could
have been spent moving forward. And so if you can think about those things
ahead of time on a project. And then when you write your code, you're
reasonably sure that the code you write is actually going to persist and get used, that's
generally speaking a better place to be in. So architecture is very important. like there's a lot of talk about its scale,
global availability, often something you build would work very well in a very hyper local
environment, but not work well, when it's expected to be used across the globe or, you
know, works well for one user, but doesn't work well, for a million users. I'm building a service, I need XYZ
pieces of data to come into the function that I want to write. Where are those things coming from? How are they getting passed in? Once I have them what do I need to do with
them? What else needs to access this data? And how am I going to get the data to those
other parts also? If you don't have those questions answered,
you end up writing a lot of churny code. If everything is on a separate server somewhere
in the cloud, or separate physical servers that are just located somewhere different
inside your data center, then you have to incur a network hop to go over them. And that takes time, your page might start
timing out and your customers might get really upset at you for how long things take. And so, if you're building something in like
a microservice architecture, the way that you load your data becomes much more important
than if everything is hosted together on the same server. But maybe the question of who is using my
service? How do I know who you are? That can become an interesting question, depending
on where your servers where your services are running, and what mechanisms are available
to you to identify people. If your people if you want your customers
to log into a website, how are you doing account management? How do you know who that person is and what
they're allowed to do? Or if you have multiple services talking to
each other again, how do you know what that service is? What it's allowed to do? How do you make the call between one and the
other? How do you transmit data between different
parts of your stack? So architecture is very important. It doesn't
always have to be super well defined, super strictly defined, but you need to have some
idea of what what things do you need, roughly where they're going to live. And what things what are they responsible
for? Those would probably be the three big questions
to ask, what, where and scope of them? So these sorts of concepts, you know, you
have to think about those things. When you're designing or architecting a system,
you're thinking like, 5, 10 years ahead to when you're thinking about architecture and
design, you're not thinking about just building something quickly, in getting it up, you actually
want to plan ahead. So I think a lot of architecture and design
is thinking about, you know, how the how many steps, how many years, whatever in the future,
you know, what is it going to look like then? What do you need to do to keep growing the
system and evolving it? Because you know, you don't want to make gigantic
architecture changes that often, you know, you don't really use when buildings are repaired,
they there's like, tiny bits of things get repaired. And then at some point, you tear the thing
down and rebuild it. And I think that's a similar model applied to
sustainable system architecture, you don't want to re-architect and redesign every few
years, you want it to last as long as you possibly can.
Welcome to object-oriented analysis and design. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Explain what objects and classes are. Describe the purpose of a class diagram, and explain object-oriented design in relation
to software architecture. Object-oriented analysis and design, or OOAD
for short, is an approach for analyzing and designing a software system when the system
will use object-oriented programming languages to develop
it. So, before we discuss OOAD, let’s learn
a little more about object-oriented programming in languages like Java, C++, or Python. At the heart of OOAD are objects. Objects contain data, and they also have behaviors
that prescribe the actions the object can take. I could create an object for example, that
represents a patient. Let’s say the patient’s name is Naya Patel
and Naya needs to cancel an appointment she made. Before creating Naya, however, we must first
create a generic version of a patient object. The generic version of an object is called
a “class”. Let’s discuss classes next before we discuss
more about Naya. Specific objects, also called instances, are
created from “classes” which are blueprints or templates for an object. So, from our previous example, considering
Naya Patel, Naya would be an instance of the patient class. The class contains the object’s generic
attributes – the properties and methods – but it is only when the object is created,
which is called “instantiation,” inside the code that these generic attributes are
set to particular values. So, the patient class might have a variable
called LastName, which is a property but does not specify what that last name is. LastName is just a placeholder until the
object is created and assigned a name. And once the object has been instantiated its
methods can be called to make the object perform some action such as making or canceling an
appointment. OOAD is used for a system that can be broken
down into objects that interact with each other. In this way, multiple developers can work
on different aspects of the application at the same time. As noted earlier, visual UML diagrams can
be created that show both the static structure and dynamic behavior of a system. We’ve seen a couple of examples of behavioral
UML diagrams already, so now let’s look at a structural UML diagram called a “class
diagram” next now that we know what classes are. This is an example of a “class diagram.” Class diagrams are commonly used to communicate
a software system’s structure in OOAD. The class diagram shows how the classes in
an object-oriented design relate to one another. Each box represents a class and shows its
attributes. Recall that an object’s attributes are both
its properties or its data, and its available actions, called methods. A class diagram also shows the relationships
between classes. A subclass is said to “inherit” its parent
class attributes meaning it has the same properties and methods as the parent class but also may
add additional properties and methods. In this diagram, the nurse, doctor, and technician classes
are subclasses of medical personnel, and the specialist class is a subclass of the doctor
class. This means that doctors can do anything medical
personnel can do and specialists can do anything a doctor can do. In this video you learned that: Object-oriented analysis and design is the
process of planning a software system based on the behaviors of interacting objects. Objects contain data, and they also have behaviors
that prescribe the actions the object can take. Classes are blueprints for objects. And a class diagram is a structural UML diagram
that shows the relationship between objects.
Welcome to object-oriented analysis and design. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Explain what objects and classes are. Describe the purpose of a class diagram, and explain object-oriented design in relation
to software architecture. Object-oriented analysis and design, or OOAD
for short, is an approach for analyzing and designing a software system when the system
will use object-oriented programming languages to develop
it. So, before we discuss OOAD, let’s learn
a little more about object-oriented programming in languages like Java, C++, or Python. At the heart of OOAD are objects. Objects contain data, and they also have behaviors
that prescribe the actions the object can take. I could create an object for example, that
represents a patient. Let’s say the patient’s name is Naya Patel
and Naya needs to cancel an appointment she made. Before creating Naya, however, we must first
create a generic version of a patient object. The generic version of an object is called
a “class”. Let’s discuss classes next before we discuss
more about Naya. Specific objects, also called instances, are
created from “classes” which are blueprints or templates for an object. So, from our previous example, considering
Naya Patel, Naya would be an instance of the patient class. The class contains the object’s generic
attributes – the properties and methods – but it is only when the object is created,
which is called “instantiation,” inside the code that these generic attributes are
set to particular values. So, the patient class might have a variable
called LastName, which is a property but does not specify what that last name is. LastName is just a placeholder until the
object is created and assigned a name. And once the object has been instantiated its
methods can be called to make the object perform some action such as making or canceling an
appointment. OOAD is used for a system that can be broken
down into objects that interact with each other. In this way, multiple developers can work
on different aspects of the application at the same time. As noted earlier, visual UML diagrams can
be created that show both the static structure and dynamic behavior of a system. We’ve seen a couple of examples of behavioral
UML diagrams already, so now let’s look at a structural UML diagram called a “class
diagram” next now that we know what classes are. This is an example of a “class diagram.” Class diagrams are commonly used to communicate
a software system’s structure in OOAD. The class diagram shows how the classes in
an object-oriented design relate to one another. Each box represents a class and shows its
attributes. Recall that an object’s attributes are both
its properties or its data, and its available actions, called methods. A class diagram also shows the relationships
between classes. A subclass is said to “inherit” its parent
class attributes meaning it has the same properties and methods as the parent class but also may
add additional properties and methods. In this diagram, the nurse, doctor, and technician classes
are subclasses of medical personnel, and the specialist class is a subclass of the doctor
class. This means that doctors can do anything medical
personnel can do and specialists can do anything a doctor can do. In this video you learned that: Object-oriented analysis and design is the
process of planning a software system based on the behaviors of interacting objects. Objects contain data, and they also have behaviors
that prescribe the actions the object can take. Classes are blueprints for objects. And a class diagram is a structural UML diagram
that shows the relationship between objects.
Welcome to Building Quality Software. After watching this video, you will be able
to: list common software engineering processes
and describe the common software engineering processes
required for building-high quality software. There are numerous processes that are common
to software engineering projects. In this video we will discuss six of them: requirements gathering, design, coding for quality, testing, releases, and documenting. The software requirements specification, or
SRS, encompasses the process of collecting and documenting the set of requirements that
the software needs to adhere to. It may include a set of use cases that describe
the business needs and user flows that the software must implement. Software requirements can be classified into
four broad categories: functional, external and User Interface, or UI, system features, and non-functional. These categories are discussed in more detail
in another video. Software design is the process of transforming
the requirements into a structure that is implementable using code. The software design process translates the
requirements into a language the developers can use to write the code. It transforms the
requirements into a software solution. The technical lead breaks down requirements
into sets of related components with clearly defined behaviors, boundaries, and interactions.
These components define the system architecture. The system design incorporates guidance on
system functions, performance, security, and platform characteristics. The design communicates business rules and
application logic, application programming interface design, which is how apps talk to
each other or communicate with the database, user interfaces, and database design. Code quality refers to the characteristics
of the code including attributes such as maintainability, readability, testability, and security. Quality code must fulfill the intended requirements
of the software without defects. Additionally, it should be clean and consistent, easy to read and maintain, well documented, and efficient. Coding for quality entails following a set
of coding practices during development. These include: following common coding standards, conventions,
patterns and styles, using automated tools, known as linters, to
detect programmatic and stylistic errors, and commenting in the code itself to make it easy
for others to understand and modify. Software testing is the process of verifying
that the software matches established requirements and is free of bugs. Its purpose is to identify errors, gaps, or
missing requirements when compared with stated requirements. Properly tested software ensures reliability,
security, performance, and efficiency. Software testing can often be automated
or done manually. Levels of testing include unit, integration,
system, and user acceptance. Unit testing is often done by the developer
and tests the smallest component of code that can be isolated from the rest of the system. Once the components are integrated into the
larger product, integration testing occurs. Then, after the larger product is deemed completed,
system testing can take place. User acceptance testing, or UAT for short
and sometimes called beta testing, is when the software is tested by the intended end
user. Types of testing can broadly be divided into three categories, functional, non-functional,
and regression. Testing levels and types will be further explained in an upcoming video. When the newest version of the software is
distributed, it is referred to as a “release.” Different types of releases are intended for
different audiences. There is generally an “alpha,” a “beta,”
and a “GA” release. GA stands for general availability. The alpha release is the first functioning
version of the system released to a select group of stakeholders. The alpha release likely contains errors and may not contain the full feature set but does
contain most of the desired functionality. Design changes may still occur during this
release stage. The beta release, also called a limited release,
is given to the stakeholders outside of the developing organization. One of the intents of the beta release is
to try out the software under real conditions, test the functionality, and identify any
outstanding bugs or errors. The beta release should meet all the functional
requirements. Then, after beta release changes are agreed upon,
made, and tested, and a stable version is released. The audience for the GA release is all users. Software documentation should be provided
to both non-technical end-users and technical users. System documentation is geared towards the
technical user. Technical users may be other engineers, developers, or architects. System
documentation explains how the software operates or how to use it. It consists of README files,
inline comments, architecture and design documents, verification information, and maintenance
guides. User documentation is provided to the non-technical
end-users to assist them in the use of the product. Generally, user documentation is
provided in the form of user guides, instructional videos and manuals, online help, and inline
help. More details about documentation will be discussed
in another video. In this video, you learned that: Requirement gathering is collecting and documenting
the set of requirements that the software needs to adhere to. Designing transforms requirements into a structure
that developers can use. Coding for quality entails following a set
of coding practices during development. Testing is the process of verifying that the
software matches established requirements and is free of bugs There are three types of releases including:
alpha, beta, and general availability. And finally, documenting requires text or video that explains
the software to technical and non-technical users.
Welcome to Approaches to
Application Architecture. After watching this video, you will be able to: Describe component-based architectures
and service-oriented architecture. Explain the characteristics of a component. Differentiate between components and services. And, describe the characteristics
of distributed systems. A component is an individual unit of encapsulated functionality that serves as a part of an application in
conjunction with other components. There are six characteristics of
components. Components should be reusable, replaceable, independent, extensible, encapsulated, and non-context specific. Let’s briefly
discuss each of these principles. Reusable implies that components should be designed such that they can be
reused in different applications. Replaceable means that a component should
be easily replaced with another component. Independent means the component
should be designed so it doesn’t have dependencies on other components. Extensibility entails the ability to add behavior
to a component without changing other components. Encapsulation consists of bundling a component’s
data and methods to hide its internal state, so it doesn’t expose its specific implementation. Creating a component that is non-context-specific
involves designing it so it operates in different environments. Data that sets its
internal state should be passed to the component rather than included
within or accessed by the component. Let’s take a look at some
examples of components. An API can be packaged as a component, if it can be
reused across multiple systems and applications. For instance, a component could be an open-source API that connects a system
to a particular database. A component can also be the interface for a
database, called a data access object, that switches the user to a different database without
the application knowing about the switch. And a controller is a type of component that
determines which other components need to be called for a particular event. It controls
the flow of data between two other components. Component-based architecture, then, focuses on the decomposition of the
design into these logical components. Component-based architecture provides a higher
level of abstraction than object-oriented designs. A component-based architecture should
define, compose, and implement loosely coupled independent components so they
work together to create an application. A service is like a component, also a unit
of functionality, but it is designed to be deployed independently and
reused by multiple systems. A service focuses on a
solution to a business need. A key difference between a component and a service
is that a service will only have one unique, always running instance with whom multiple
clients communicate. This diagram displays the relationship between objects, components,
and services in a layered architecture. Services are made of components and components consist of objects. A service is a type of component. It is meant to be deployed independently
of the overall system. Examples of services include: checking a customer’s credit, calculating a monthly loan payment, or processing a mortgage application. In a service-oriented architecture, or SOA, services are loosely coupled
and interface with each other via a communication protocol over a network. SOA supports building distributed systems
that deliver services to other applications through the communication protocol. So,
let’s discuss distributed systems next. A distributed system is a system with multiple services located
on different machines that coordinate interactions by
passing messages to each other via a communication protocol such
as hypertext transfer protocol, also known as HTTP. Even though the services on a
distributed system operate on multiple machines, a distributed system appears to the
end-user as a single coherent system. A distributed system shares resources
such as hardware, software, and data. They are fault-tolerant, meaning if a node or
a service fails the system continues to run also implying that the system may change
during execution without service interruption. Multiple activities run
concurrently on a distributed system reducing latency and increasing throughput. Another property of distributed systems
is that they are scalable as the number of users increases. The computers
running the distributed system do not need to use the same kind of
hardware or operating systems. A distributed system may be made up of different
kinds of computers and programming languages. Now a node is any device on a
network that can recognize, process, and transmit data to
other nodes on the network. A distributed system consists of multiple interconnected nodes where the nodes are
running one or more services in an SOA. Distributed systems generally use one or more
of the following basic types of architecture: client-server, three-tier, peer-to-peer or microservices. These application architectures and their characteristics will be
discussed in another video. In this video, you learned that: Components are reusable, independent, replaceable,
extensible, encapsulated, and non-context specific. Component-based architecture is the decomposition
of the system into logical independent components. Services are made of components
and components consist of objects. Services are deployed independently
and can be reused by multiple systems. In an SOA services are loosely coupled and interface with each other via a communication protocol over a network. And lastly, distributed systems run on
multiple services on different machines and they appear to the end-user
as a single coherent system .
Welcome to architectural patterns in software! After watching this video, you will be able
to: Describe different software architectures
such as 2-tier, 3-tier, peer-to-peer, event-driven, and microservices. And provide an example of each architectural pattern. An architectural pattern is a repeatable solution
to a problem in software architecture. Patterns highlight common internal elements
and structures of a software system. Different architecture patterns may share
related characteristics. In this video, we will discuss 2-tier, 3-tier, peer-to-peer, event-driven, and microservices. However, there are many other patterns that
will not be covered in this video. These patterns include model-view-controller, message-broker, blackboard, pipe-filter, and controller-responder. The 2-tier architecture, also called client-server,
is a computing model in which the server hosts, delivers, and manages most of
the resources and services delivered to the client. The interface resides on the client machine
and makes requests to a server for data or services. This type of architecture usually has more than one client computer connected to
a server component over a network connection. A 3-tier architecture, or an n-tier architecture
where there are more than three layers, is the most common software architecture. The 3-tier architecture is composed of several
horizontal tiers that function together as a single unit of software. A tier only communicates with other tiers
located directly above and below it. Related components are placed within the same
tier. Changes in one tier do not affect the other
tier. The 3-tier architecture organizes applications
into three logical and physical computing tiers: the presentation tier, or user interface the middle tier which is usually the application
tier, is where business logic is processed the data tier, where the data is stored and
managed The peer-to-peer architecture, or P2P for
short, consists of a decentralized network of nodes that are both clients and servers. The workload is partitioned among these nodes. Peers make a portion of their resources directly
available to other network participants, without the need for central coordination by servers. Resources are things like processing power,
disk storage, or network bandwidth. Peers both supply and consume resources, in
contrast to the traditional client-server architecture in which the consumption happens
strictly by the client and the servers, supply the resources. Peer-to-peer architecture is useful for file
sharing, instant messaging, collaboration, and high-performance computing. An event is anything that results in a change
of state. An event can be thought of as an action that
is triggered by the end-user, such as a mouse click, or another part of the program. Event-driven architecture focuses on producers and consumers of events. Producers listen for and react to triggers
while consumers process an event. The producer publishes the event to an event
router. The router determines which consumer to push
the event to. The triggering event generates a message,
called an event notification, to the consumer which is listening for the event. The components in event-driven architectures
are loosely coupled making the pattern appropriate for use with modern, distributed systems. Microservices are an approach to building
an application that breaks its functionality into modular components called services. An application programming interface, also
called an API, is the part of an application that communicates with other applications. An API defines how two applications share
and modify each other’s data. APIs can be used to create a microservices-based
architecture. The API Gateway routes the API from the client
to a service. Orchestration handles communication between
services. Let’s discuss an example for each of these
patterns. A text messaging app is an example of a 2-tier
pattern. The client initiates a request to send a text
message through a server and the server responds by sending that message to another different
client. Another example of the 2-tier pattern, is
Database clients connecting with database servers. Many web apps use the 3-tier pattern. They use a web server to provide the user
interface, an application server to process user inputs, and a database server that handles
data management. The functions of these three types of servers
will be discussed in more detail in another video. Ride-sharing apps such as Lyft and Uber are
examples of event-driven patterns. The customer sends a notification that they
need a ride from a particular location to another location, and that event is routed
to a consumer. Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum
use a peer-to-peer pattern. Each computer in the blockchain acts as both
server and client. Finally, social media sites are composed of
microservices. A user has an account. That account can request different services
such as adding friends, targeted ad recommendations, and displaying content. Architectural patterns are not necessarily
mutually exclusive. In other words, two or more of these patterns
can be combined. For instance, a three-tiered architecture
can also be microservice-based, or a peer-to-peer architecture can also be event-driven. However, not all architectural patterns can
be used in conjunction with others. A peer-to-peer cannot also be two-tier because
a single machine in a peer-to-peer architecture represents both a client and a server whereas
a two-tier architecture separates the client from the server. It is up to the system architect to determine
which architectural patterns the software system should adhere to. In this video, you learned that: An architectural pattern is a repeatable solution
to an architectural problem A 2-tier pattern has a client and server. Text messaging apps use a 2-tier pattern. A 3-tier pattern has 3-tiers that interact
with each other. Web apps use a 3-tier pattern. An event-driven pattern has actions that are
produced and responded to by a consumer. Ride-sharing apps use an event-driven pattern. The peer-to-peer pattern consists of a decentralized
network of nodes that act as clients and servers. Cryptocurrency is an example of the peer-to-peer
pattern. Microservices are loosely coupled individual
services that behave as a single system and interact with the client. Communication is orchestrated among services. Social media sites are an example and Two or more patterns can be combined in a
single system but some are not mutually exclusive
Welcome to Application Deployment Environments.
After watching this video you will also be able to: List different types of pre-production environments
and state their purpose. Differentiate a production environment from
other application environments. And compare and contrast deployment options. An application environment is the combination
of the hardware and software resources required to run an application. This includes:
the application code and/or binary executables for its various components or modules the software stack it requires for running
the application such as modules and libraries it depends on, third party applications and
middleware, and the operating system, any networking components and infrastructure,
as well as any physical or virtual hardware including
computing or processing resources, memory, and storage. There are a variety of environment types depending
on the application’s stage in the lifecycle. The pre-production environments are those
platforms that the application resides on in various forms as it gets prepared for production.
Common pre-production environments are “development,” “QA,” which stands
for quality assurance, and “staging.” The development environment is the platform
on which the application is being actively coded, and in many cases it may just be
the developer's workstation. The QA environment, sometimes called “testing”
is the environment that allows the QA team to test the application’s components. The staging environment is the environment
that is as close to replicating the production environment as possible but is not meant for
general users. Now, let’s discuss the production environment. The production environment, often just called
“production” includes the entire solution stack consisting of both hardware
and software on which the application runs as additional infrastructure components. The production environment is intended for
all users. Unlike the pre-production environments, this
robust environment must take the application “load” into consideration because it is
the environment intended for general use, possibly by thousands or millions of people
at the same time for enterprise-level applications. Production environments must also take into
account non-functional requirements like security, reliability, and scalability. This makes the production environment more
complicated than the pre-production ones. Now, let’s take a look at the production
environment infrastructure. There are several options for deploying application
environments. In on-premises deployment, the system and
its infrastructure reside in-house, within the organization’s physical location, often
behind a firewall. Firewalls prevent unauthorized access to or from a private
network. If an organization desires greater security
or control of an application and the data in use by that application, it may deploy
the application on-premises. For on-premises software deployments, an organization
is responsible for the system, hardware, related infrastructure, and maintenance required to
run the application. On-premises deployment is usually more expensive
when compared to cloud deployment. Let’s discuss cloud deployments next. There are three types of Cloud deployment
models—public, private, and hybrid. The public cloud is when you leverage the
software’s supporting infrastructure over the open internet on hardware owned by the
cloud provider. That hardware and the associated services are shared with other companies.
Public cloud providers include Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud
Platform, and IBM Cloud. The public cloud is the most common due to its scalability
and cost. With a private cloud, the cloud infrastructure
is provisioned for exclusive use by a single organization. The software system can be run
on-premises, or the infrastructure could be owned, managed, and operated by a service
provider. For example, AWS is also a private cloud service provider. The main advantage
of a private cloud is increased security, but it also allows for more flexibility because
it can be fully customized. A mix of both public and private clouds, working
together seamlessly, is called a hybrid cloud model. A hybrid cloud potentially optimizes
the advantages of both public and private cloud models with regard to cost, security,
scalability, and flexibility. In this video you learned that: Application environments include: development,
testing or QA, staging, and production. Production environments must also take into
account non-functional requirements like load, security, reliability, and scalability. And application environments can be deployed either
on-premises on traditional hardware, or on public, private, or hybrid cloud platforms.
Welcome to production deployment components. After watching this video you will be
able to: Describe components commonly required for
deployment in a production environment. Describe the purpose of a firewall and a load
balancer. And differentiate between different types of servers. Let’s consider an n-tier architecture required
to deploy an application in a production environment and represent the infrastructure using a diagram. The top tier is the presentation tier which
contains the front-end client applications. All of the other tiers are located behind
a firewall. Firewalls and other components mentioned
in this diagram will be discussed in further detail later in the video. The next tier is the web tier which has a
web load balancer that distributes incoming traffic to several web servers. The tier below the web tier is the application
server tier. This tier contains an app load balancer or
a proxy server that routes traffic to different application servers. The bottom tier is the data tier that contains
the database server. A high availability replica of the database
is often also used to ensure reliability. Some environments may have additional components
or tiers. Also not all of these components are necessary
for every deployment. For example, in some environments there might not be a need for
both application servers in addition to web servers. Now, let’s look at these components in further
detail. A firewall is a security device that monitors
traffic between networks. It permits or blocks requested data based
on a set of security rules. It acts as a barrier between networks to block
viruses, malware, and hackers from accessing the internal network. The purpose of load balancers is to distribute
network traffic efficiently amongst multiple servers, called a server farm, on a network. Load balancers are used to prevent server
traffic overload and are located between clients and the servers. A load balancer determines which servers are
capable of fulfilling those requirements in a manner that maximizes availability and responsiveness. Load balancers ensure that no one server is
overworked. They manage concurrent requests from clients
and return the correct data in a fast and reliable manner. Web and application servers are either software
or machines that provides services, resources, data, or applications to another computer
program, called the client. Servers store, process, and manage network
data, devices, and systems. A web server delivers content such as web
pages, files, images, and videos to a client. And a web server primarily responds to hypertext
transfer protocol requests coming from a web browser such as a user accessing a website. An app server is a server that runs business
logic and provides the application to the client rather than the client running the
app on their own machine. Its primary job is to enable interaction between
the end-user and the server-side application code. The application code represents the business
logic that determines how data can be created, stored, and changed. And that logic dictates things like transaction
results and what data is written to and retrieved from a database. A proxy server is an intermediate server that
sits in between two tiers and handles requests between those tiers. A proxy server can serve multiple purposes
such as load balancing, system optimization, caching, acting as a firewall, obscuring the
source of the request, encryption, scanning for malware, and more. And a proxy server can improve the efficiency,
privacy, and security of data flowing through a network. Finally, a database is a collection of related data,
stored on a computer that can be accessed in various ways. A database is usually controlled by software
called a database management system or DBMS. The DBMS controls a database by connecting
the database to users or other programs. The database server controls the flow and
storage of data. The DBMS connects the database server to an
application so data stored in the database can be retrieved or manipulated by the application. In this video you learned that: Common components needed for a production
environment include a firewall, a load balancer, web and application servers, proxy servers,
and database servers. A firewall is a security device that monitors
traffic between networks. A load balancer distributes network traffic
amongst servers. A web server delivers content such as web
pages, files, images, and videos to a client. An application server runs business logic
and provides the application to the client rather than the client running the app on
their own machine and finally, a database server stores and controls the
flow of data through a database management system.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints:
Deployment Architecture. In this video, we will hear
from experts discussing important aspects of software deployment. I think often you need to think
about scale, like this sort of just in general, is your system, how
many users your system has? How much data do you expect to flow through it? How much data do you expect to produce and store? How real-time do you need the data access to be? What is your logging story like?
Do you have privacy concerns? Do you need to ensure that data is anonymized? So you kind of, I think, thinking about
the scale, the regionality, is it global? Is it local? What is your logging? What are your logging needs,
both for internal and external data analysis, mapping out the data flows? So these are sort of the things I think we
start with is with design principles. And in terms of choosing infrastructure,
like whether you want to go serverless, whether you want to use a hosted back
end, or you're hosting your own, you know, these are all design
and architectural decisions, that will probably, for your first few jobs,
already be taken for you. What's your system SLOs, your availability look
like? Service level objectives, right? So, you need to think about
those sorts of things, I think, ensuring you, you have you like, what
does a healthy system mean to you? What does a well-running system mean to
you, you need to define those metrics upfront? And sort of have those monitored, and, you know,
watch those as, as your system lives on and, and make sure that you're meeting those objectives
and goals and have a plan to mitigate them if they fall below
where you'd like them to be? These days, I think microservices, and keeping
code as modular-alized as possible to avoid, you know, giant, sort of
bloated behemoth code bases is really important so that people
can move fast and deploy fast. But what I would say is a critical
part of the deployment option is, you know, when you look at deployment and
integrating your code, testing is fundamental. So I would strongly urge all of you to
really, really pay attention to testing and to use test driven development, TDD, test
driven development, as a development habit that you inculcate in your life as developers and
engineers, it'll stand you in very good stead. I think that's the single most important part, you won't always do it, but you should
try and do it as much as you can. You need to think about whether
you want to canarying the, there's a canary in a coal mine analogy. So there's a process called canarying where you try to roll out new code and test whether it's going to blow things up or break things and you want to think about, you know, you need to think
about how quickly you need to release or not. How quickly you may need to roll back your code or not.
Welcome to What Does a Software Engineer Do? After watching this video, you will be able
to Describe the types of software that software
engineers develop and the technologies that they use Identify the categories of software engineers
and the teams they work in, and Describe the day-to-day tasks and responsibilities
of a software engineer Software engineers use their talents in engineering,
mathematics, and computing to design and develop software that solves real-world problems for
their users. If you’re an analytical thinker who enjoys
problem solving, software engineering might be the career for you! Software engineers develop a plethora of different
types of software, from desktop to web applications, to mobile apps, games, operating systems,
and network controllers. They use many technologies to do this, including
programming languages, development environments, frameworks and libraries, databases, and servers. There are two categories of software engineer: Back-end engineers, also known as system
developers, who build the computer systems and networks that front-end applications use. And front-end engineers, or application developers,
who are more client focused. They create the software that users will interact
with, such as Android, iOS, and Windows applications, and platform agnostic websites. Software engineers work in a wide variety
of settings. You could work in a team developing: Off-the-shelf software, Bespoke software to meet a specific client’s
requirements, or Internal software for users in your organization And within your team, you might work on: Data integration layers which access and load
data from a variety of sources into your solution, Business logic which applies real-world business
rules to the data in your solution, or User interfaces which enable users to interact
with your solution. On a day-to-day basis you might undertake
tasks such as: Taking user specifications and designing new
software systems to meet their requirements Writing code and testing that it works as
expected Evaluating and testing new software programs Optimizing software programs for maximum efficiency Maintaining and updating existing software
systems Documenting code so that other developers
can understand it or, Presenting new systems to users and customers And some software engineers, such as DevOps
practitioners, also integrate and deploy their code onto the underlying infrastructure. As well as building your own systems you'll also be testing, improving, and maintaining software built by your colleagues. The responsibilities of a software engineer
are as many and varied as the tasks which they undertake. In a junior position you are likely to start
out with a limited set of responsibilities focused on writing, testing, deploying and
documenting code, but as your career progresses this will widen. And, in a senior role, you will likely have
primary responsibility for multiple areas of the software solution including the planning
and designing phases. In this video you learned that: Software engineers design and develop a range
of software solutions Back-end engineers build the computer systems
and networks And front-end engineers build the user interfaces Software engineers undertake a range of tasks,
from designing and writing new software to maintaining and updating existing software And as your career develops, you will move from
being responsible for one small section of code to many areas of one or more products
Hi, I’m Shelly and I work as a Software Engineer
for a start-up company in North Carolina. When I arrive at work in the morning, I
spend some time catching up on my messages and checking my calendar for the day. Before heading to my daily standup meeting, I quickly check the status of my
code merge request from yesterday. Great, it’s got positive feedback from
others in the team and some suggestions from my mentor about improvements I
could make. I’ll work on those later. During our daily standup
meeting, each member of the team talks about what they achieved yesterday
and what they’re working on today. Jonathan, my mentor, gives me some more advice about how I can optimize
the code I wrote yesterday. After the meeting, I return to
my desk excited to implement the feedback I’ve received and
continue working on my code. Now it’s focus time, when I can
concentrate purely on my project work. I use Jonathan’s comments on the merge
request alongside the notes that I made during our standup to re-engineer
a couple of methods to run faster. I also use some of our analysis software to
compare timings with the previous version and, when I’m satisfied that
there’s a marked improvement, I submit a new merge request
to gather additional feedback. I then send Jonathan a message to
ask if he can review it later today. After lunch, I’m invited to a meeting
where the marketing department explains that they need a new feature to
monitor the effectiveness of their campaigns. One of the senior software engineers, Marie,
mentions that she’s previously developed a React-based front-end for a management
dashboard that we could easily reuse. I’m tasked with creating a minimum viable product (MVP) for a small team in the marketing
department to trial and provide feedback on. I’ve not used React before, but this is a great
chance to get some hands-on experience with it while still making a contribution to the team. Learning on the job and developing new skills is
an important part of a Software Engineer’s role. On my return from the meeting, I find that
Jonathan has reviewed my code and approved the merge request. He’s impressed with the
speed of the code and with my coding style. It’s really helpful to get regular feedback
from more experienced members of the team who can suggest alternative
ways of solving problems. I’ve also received a bug report notification for
one of the features I was working on last week. When I review the full report, I quickly
spot the mistake and begin fixing it. To check that the fix and the original
functionality work as expected, I develop and run a test case for the feature. It passes, so I submit a merge request
for my fix and resolve the bug. Now I’m free to start researching React. I
spend the rest of the afternoon reviewing the React documentation, watching videos, and
reading blogs to give me an overview of React. I then contact Marie to ask for access to the
front-end she developed so I can review the existing solution. This gives me design ideas
and inspires me to start planning my dashboard. On my cycle home, my head is buzzing
with thoughts about how the new dashboard will look and the functionality I can provide
through it. Tomorrow can’t come quickly enough!
Welcome to Skills Required for Software Engineering.
After watching this video, you will be able to differentiate between hard and soft skills, describe the hard skills needed by a software engineer, and describe the soft skills needed by a software engineer. Hard skills are the practical skills needed to perform a particular role, so for a software engineer these will be the technical skills they need to design, build, maintain, and repair software solutions. Hard skills are learned skills. In the case of software engineering, they are usually learned in a school, college, or university environment, or by studying online courses, diplomas, or certificates. Alternatively, they can be gained from years of experience in the field. Hard skills are quantifiable, so it’s easy to measure whether an individual can demonstrate a particular skill and to certify them in that skill. Commonly required hard skills in the software engineering sphere include programming languages, version control, cloud computing, testing and debugging, monitoring, troubleshooting, Agile development, and database architecture. Now, Soft skills on the other hand are less tangible. They are your personal characteristics and interpersonal skills. They’re the non-technical skills that are part of your personality and as such, are harder to define, quantify, or certify than hard skills. Because they’re not linked to a particular business though, they are easily transferable between roles and across industries. The job requirements for any role will be a combination of hard skills and soft skills. So, let’s look at some of the hard skills that are relevant to a software engineer. Software analysis and design skills are essential for a software engineer. You need to be able to analyze your users’ needs through a variety of methods and then design effective solutions that meet those needs. You also need to be able to develop those solutions. Computer programming and coding are essential development skills. While some job roles require a specific language and/or toolset, employers will sometimes welcome you with experience in any language but expect you to cross-train into their preferred language. The coding bootcamp website, Coding Dojo, states that some of the most in-demand languages are currently Java, Python, C#, and Ruby. An understanding of a variety of frameworks and object-oriented principles are also key skills for a software engineer. While you’d hope to always create flawless solutions, it is likely that at times your code will either not work or not work in the way that you intended. You need testing skills to determine whether your code meets the functional specification of the solution and if it’s easy to use. And when your code isn’t working as expected, you need debugging skills to work out why. And when your solution is complete, you need deployment skills to distribute it to your users. These could include shell scripting, containers, and continuous integration and continuous delivery (or CI/CD) tools. You’ll also need monitoring skills so that you can review the performance of your solutions and troubleshooting skills to resolve any issues that may occur. So now let’s look at the soft skills of a software engineer. Teamwork is a key soft skill. Software engineers work in a variety of teams, some based on the project they’re working on and some based on their specific role. If you’re practicing Agile development, you may also work in small teams known as squads. And you might also work closely alongside another developer in pair programming. Working in teams enables you to take advantage of each individual’s strengths as well as providing opportunities for you to gain new knowledge and skills. You’ll need to be able to communicate with a wide variety of stakeholders in your project – from technical colleagues to non-technical personnel. For example, you may need to ask: your peers for support and ideas, your manager for guidance and direction, your client for clarification of their needs, and your users how they’d best interact with your solution. Software solutions are often time-sensitive projects and as such, your manager will be keen that you meet their deadlines. Managing your own time is imperative to ensure that you don’t cause delays to others waiting for your work. And with increasing numbers of teams working across time-zones, what could previously only seem like a small local delay can create a whole day of lost time for someone located elsewhere in the world. Software engineers need great problem-solving skills to succeed. You need them: in the design phase to work out how to create an appropriate software solution, in the development phase to work out the code required to perform the task required, in the testing and debugging phase to locate and resolve any bugs, and throughout the lifecycle of the software to manage any issues that may arise. And when those issues do arise, you need to be adaptable to meet the changing needs of the project. Examples of changes include: Your client requesting a change or addition to the functionality, Your manager requesting you to move onto a different area to meet a looming deadline, Or your user requesting an alternative method of achieving a specific task. And finally, you need to be open to feedback on your work. Most software teams use some type of peer review system where peers review each other’s code. This helps enforce any corporate standards and improves the code. In a junior role, you’ll also likely have a mentor who’ll provide feedback and pointers where you can improve. And your stakeholders will provide feedback on pre-release and final versions of your solution. Accepting all of this feedback in an open and welcoming way ensures that your solution becomes the best that it can be and that you progress in your role. In this video, you learned that: a combination of hard and soft skills are essential to a software engineer. Hard skills are measurable, learned skills such as: Programming, testing, and troubleshooting, And, soft skills are your personality and characteristics, such as communication and problem solving.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Advice
to Future Software Engineers. In this video, we will hear from software
engineers discussing their advice to those who are considering getting into the field. Practice, you should practice all the time,
you should learn new skills as much as you can. There are a lot of free resources out there
that you can use to help you build new projects, I think the best way to continue working on
your craft is to learn not only learn new things, but also use them to build new projects. It can doesn't matter if it's something that's
been done before the point is that you're doing it now. And you're using the tools that you've used
to build something new. The most important thing for my career has
been finding a business domain that I am interested in, that has what that have looked like, not
low hanging fruits, but interesting problems to grapple with. The interesting problems for you are certainly
going to be the different than the interesting problems for me. But if you narrow down those, if you narrow
down the domains that you're interested in, that can really help tailor both of the things
that you study the types of jobs that you apply for. I have other friends where their domain, the
domains that they're super interested in is like, like, machine learning, like they're
just nuts for machine learning. And so they'll do anything that they can exercise,
like, an artificial intelligence kind of thrust to the whatever business problem it is that
they're working on. So like find that general domain, and then
kind of like, dive in on that one. But don't be don't be scared to fail either. I think the beauty about what's one of the
one of the beauties about software engineering and, and the way that tech is evolving, is
there's there are a lot of opportunities and it will continue to be new opportunities. And you know, there's lots of movement in
the industry. So if you take a job and you really are excited
about it, but you know, it ends up not working out as well. You can always think, you know, move to somewhere
else. There's lots of different types of lots of
roles, lots of companies, all that sort of people move around so don't don't don't let
a one potential failure either mean, you give up, I think it's wouldn't be a failure. Yes, so my best advice for those looking to
get into the software engineering industry is to figure out what role you want to get
into, make a list of the required skills for that role and find free resources to
start learning online. So when I was exposed to coding in 2018, after
trying a few technologies, I decided that I wanted to be a front end engineer or a front
end developer. And so I made a list of all the skills that
I needed. And I started learning those skills using
like free or low cost resources online. I think being careful about what sort of hot
and new there's, there's often this is more specifically to like taking I think taking
jobs and and how do you find like a good role and fit for you? I know a lot of companies will often sort
of market themselves as being you know, we're, we're we're working with XYZ new technology. It's, it's super, super hot. And it's like the latest and greatest and
almost use use buzzwords as a way to attract people. So just, you know, be inquisitive and ask
clarifying questions. Be wary in that sense. You are cautious when it comes to some of
the buzzwords and new things and just know what you're getting into. Don't neglect the job hunt process. Pay due attention to that. Because if you just study and don't pay attention
to the job hunt process, you're going to get frustrated because you're going to finish
one phase, and then have a long period of frustration and self doubt after that. So if you can do the job hunt phase in preparation,
sort of in parallel with the latter half of your learning journey, I think you're going
to be prepared to hit the market hard when you're ready. And it's just a question of time after that
time.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Advice
to Women in Software Engineering. In this video, we will hear from software
engineers discussing their advice to women in the field or who are considering getting
into the field. I think recently, there have been a lot of
good positive momentum, and diversification of the industry and making, making software
engineering a more welcoming place for women in general. So, I come from work environments that are
you know, primarily women. And now I'm in a work environment that is
primarily men. I think I've had a pretty good experience
with my coworkers personally. But in the beginning, it did very much feel
like a little bit kind of like you're alone because you know, you're either the only or
one of two or three women on your team. I would say just remind yourself that you
actually do deserve to be there that you actually do belong. You do belong there, and everybody started
exactly where you are. Everybody who started as an engineer and even
at your company started and was like I do not know what's going on. But you're capable and you'll figure it out. If you're a software developer at a company,
your main job should be software development. And if your bosses or management or other
people in the company want you to do other types of work, you should be getting compensated
for it, you should have a title that reflects what it is that you do. And I have seen this happen a lot where the
woman on the team will be the one who cares about diversity, for instance. And so as part of diversity workshops and
clubs at the at the company and is participating in diverse hiring events and doing all sorts
of like extra training around that side, that side of things, then review time happens. And as a software developer, if you're getting
reviewed on code, you need to make sure that you're getting enough of that code in your
life. Everyone needs to contribute. Everyone needs to pull their weight; it can't
all go on one person. Join a team that does make you feel like they
do support women and want to elevate women and advocate for women. So I think it's very fair to ask directly
to say, a hiring manager, you know, what, what is your plan for diversity on your team? What types of programs do you or the organization
or company have in place to, to ensure that woman are successful, and you know, be willing
and open to speak up if there's something that you think is uncomfortable. It's not all on you to fix if something is
broken, there are other people involved. And they also are adults who should be reasonable
human beings, and able to take advice and constructive feedback. So let them take that advice and constructive
feedback. You don't have to do all the changing. never be compelled to join a team where you're
not feeling good about it, or you think that there's a risk that it's not a welcoming,
so ask other people to I think it's very fair to just ask those questions. Don't stay, don't stay, if you don't like
it, the company needs you more than you need them almost certainly. So, leave when you can, if something isn't
working out for you leave, you have that ability. And there are companies that have less of
that in their culture and less of that in their engineering teams. It can feel rough trying to find it sometimes. But if you do find yourself at a place that
is not a healthy, positive, growing environment for you leave, it doesn't reflect on you,
again, it reflects on the company. And I know, any company, or organization that's
even remotely taking diversity and inclusion seriously, simply with regards to women, will
have programs in place to support women, elevate women. And, you know, basically, there's an eye on
that, and there as there should be, there's a lot of effort being put into hiring women
and getting women into senior leadership roles, which I think is very important. Figure out what role you want and find free
resources to get into those roles. One thing to bear in mind is as a woman, you
know, we are a minority, and we are underrepresented in the tech industry. So, there are a lot of free or low-cost programs
tailored specifically to women who want to get into computing or who women who are in
computing looking to advance their careers.
Welcome to Requirements. After watching this video, you will be able to: Describe the steps of the
requirement gathering process. Explain the purpose of a User Requirement
Specification, or URS, document. Explain the purpose of a Software Requirement
Specification, or SRS, document, and Explain the purpose of a System Requirement
Specification, or SysRS, document Requirement gathering is a six-step
process of defining a problem to be solved and documenting how to go about
solving that problem. These steps include: identifying stakeholders, establishing goals and objectives, eliciting requirements from the stakeholders, documenting the requirements, analyzing and confirming the requirements, and prioritizing. Generally, the stakeholders
work for the organization that requests the development of the software product. Key personnel from the organization may include decision-makers, end-users, system administrators, engineering, marketing, sales, and customer support personnel. It is good to have a representative from
every group that the product affects. The goals of the product
should be clearly defined. Goals are broad, long-term achievable outcomes. Goals can include customer
outcomes and business goals. Next, objectives should be identified.
Objectives are more specific than goals and they are actionable and measurable
actions that achieve the stated goals. The next three steps, eliciting, documenting, and requirement confirmation are
usually completed iteratively. Elicitation can be accomplished through surveys, questionnaires, and interviews. As the
requirements emerge, they should be documented and checked to ensure they align with the goals and objectives. Documented requirements should be easily
understood by stakeholders and the project team. In order to confirm the requirements, they should be analyzed to ensure consistency, clarity, and completeness. And after analysis, the
requirements should be shared with and approved by the stakeholders. After confirmation, requirements
should be prioritized. Labels such as “must-have,” “highly desired,” and “nice to have” are helpful. If possible, order
the requirements within those categories. Typically, there may be three documents that
result from the requirements gathering process: software requirements specification, or SRS, user requirements specification, or URS, and system requirements specification, or SysRS. The most common of these is the
software requirements specification. The software requirements specification, or SRS, is a document that captures the functionalities
that the software should perform and also establishes benchmarks or
service levels for its performance. Parts of an SRS include: A purpose statement that contains the intended use of the SRS, its audience and scope, constraints, assumptions and dependencies, and requirements, which can be
sorted into four categories: Functional requirements External Interface requirements System Features and Non-functional requirements The product’s purpose describes who will have access to the SRS and how they should use it. The scope describes the benefits of the software, its goals, and objectives. The second part of the SRS should detail
constraints, assumptions, and dependencies. Constraints describe how the product must
operate under given conditions that may limit options in the design phase such as
confirmation to standards or hardware limitations. Assumptions may include things like a required operating system or hardware that is
needed by the software to function. Dependencies on other software
products should also be noted. Requirements can be classified
into four categories. Functional requirements are those that
cover the functionalities of the software. External requirements are the requirements
that address the behavior of the software in relation to external entities such as users
and interactions with other hardware or software. System features are a subset
of functional requirements. These are required features
for the system to function. There are also non-functional requirements
such as specifying performance, safety, security, and quality standards. User requirements describe the
business need and expectations of the end-users from the software system. The user requirements are
written as “user stories” or “use cases” that answer three questions: Who is the user? What is the function that needs to be performed? And why does the user want this functionality? User acceptance testing determines
if these requirements have been met. Often though, the user requirements
and software requirements are combined into a single SRS document. The SRS details
the expectations of the software system. The System Requirement Specification
document, or SysRS, to differentiate it from the SRS, clearly outlines the requirements
of an entire system. The system requirement specification is often used interchangeably
with software requirement specification, but the SysRS is actually
broader in scope than the SRS. Many software projects develop
an SRS rather than a SysRS. The SysRS contains system capabilities, interfaces, and user
characteristics. It also may include policy requirements, regulation requirements, personnel requirements, performance requirements, security requirements, and system acceptance criteria. It also outlines expectations of
the hardware needed for the system in addition to software requirements. In this video you learned that: The requirement gathering process entails
identifying stakeholders, establishing goals and objectives, and eliciting, documenting,
confirming, and then prioritizing requirements. The SRS documents functional, external,
system, and non-functional requirements. The URS documents user stories. And finally, the SysRS documents system
capabilities and acceptance criteria, and policy, regulation, personnel, performance,
security, and hardware requirements.
Welcome to Job Outlook for Software Engineers. After watching this video, you will be able
to explain why demand is high for software engineers, describe the job outlook for a software engineer, describe what to expect from a software engineering
role and describe the employment options in software
engineering. There are various reasons behind the current
high demand for software engineers. Almost all industries need software to compete
and grow. This results in a continuous demand for software
engineers. Most organizations require applications and
websites for their company to function. Some apps and websites are for internal use,
while others are used to interact with customers. The Internet of Things is also driving the
need for software that interacts with products. This is a need that will continue to expand
for the foreseeable future. All types of software programs, from messaging
applications to commerce websites to office software, are available in different flavors
from different vendors. Whenever one vendor releases a new version
of their particular program, a competing company is likely to also update their program, requiring more software engineers to create
the new releases, enhance functionality, and add new capabilities. So, the outlook is bright for software engineers. The US Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts
a higher than average 22% job growth rate for software developers, analysts, and testers
from 2020 to 2030. That’s an average of almost 200,000 openings
each year – in the United States alone! These roles are likely to be across many industries,
from mobile application development to health and insurance. There is also predicted to be a large increase
in security software due to the increase in computer security threats and cyber-crime. Many software engineers are graduates with
degrees in software engineering or computer science. However, increasingly employers like IBM,
Google, and Tesla are starting to hire non-graduates who demonstrate the required skills for the
role. This opens software engineering up to a wider
range of society ensuring that the cost of obtaining a degree doesn’t preclude candidates
from the industry. Salaries for software engineers vary significantly
with years of experience in the field. As you acquire more experience and become
harder to replace, employers typically provide higher compensation. In the USA, salaries range from $90,000 for
a junior role through to $120,000 or higher for an experienced position. The average of $110,000 per annum for a software
engineer is more than 2.5 times the average base salary across the USA. This, alongside bonuses and benefits such
as medical insurance, gym membership, profit shares, and retirement plans make a software
engineering role an attractive proposition. So, what should you expect from a software
engineering role? Dress codes are unlikely to be formal unless
you’re in a customer facing situation. Hours are often flexible, sometimes around
core hours set in the middle of the day. You may occasionally be required to attend
meetings or calls which can dictate a physical or online presence at a particular time of
the day. The number of hours are likely to increase
as you get near to product release dates, often without any matching increase in pay. The flexibility to work from home varies across
employers, but there is no technological reasons why this cannot be done. In fact, some software teams are spread across
the globe, working across all hours of the day. Software engineer employers include almost
any type of business that you can imagine. From large technology companies such as Facebook,
Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google (also known as FAANG), to medium-sized software companies that develop
specific software and solutions, to small software houses and start-ups. And almost all large non-technology companies
like banks, retailers, and pharmaceuticals need software engineers for their own internal
or external systems. And lastly, most employers will encourage continual
learning, whether that be expanding your technical skills or enhancing your soft skills. They’re usually keen to invest in keeping
your skills up to date so that you can develop the best software solutions for them. Now in the software engineering world, regardless
of your job title, there are different employment options to suit your lifestyle and situation. Employed roles in a company or organization
provide stability and a regular income. These can range from an apprenticeship or
internship, to a part-time role, through to a full-time role. In software engineering, more so than a typical
job, there is a huge independent contracting market and opportunities in the gig economy. These can range from simple website development
to super-specialized skills, languages, stacks, and products. In this type of employment, you can provide
contract or consultancy services to organizations on a time-based or project-based model or you can work on a freelance basis taking
on short-term contracts to work on projects that interest you. And many software engineers also code for free
as volunteers contributing to open source projects. This can help you gain experience, enhance
your skills, improve your employment opportunities, and enhance your technical eminence. It also makes you feel good by doing something
for a cause or community or social initiative that’s important to you. In this video, you learned that: the high demand for software engineers is
due to increasing needs for software, increasing complexity of applications, and a continuing growth of technology the outlook for software engineers is promising the role of a software engineer can be flexible
and satisfying and that employment options for
software engineers are flexible and varied, from full-time employment through to voluntary
activities
Hi, I’m Shelly and I work as a Software Engineer
for a start-up company in North Carolina. When I arrive at work in the morning, I
spend some time catching up on my messages and checking my calendar for the day. Before heading to my daily standup meeting, I quickly check the status of my
code merge request from yesterday. Great, it’s got positive feedback from
others in the team and some suggestions from my mentor about improvements I
could make. I’ll work on those later. During our daily standup
meeting, each member of the team talks about what they achieved yesterday
and what they’re working on today. Jonathan, my mentor, gives me some more advice about how I can optimize
the code I wrote yesterday. After the meeting, I return to
my desk excited to implement the feedback I’ve received and
continue working on my code. Now it’s focus time, when I can
concentrate purely on my project work. I use Jonathan’s comments on the merge
request alongside the notes that I made during our standup to re-engineer
a couple of methods to run faster. I also use some of our analysis software to
compare timings with the previous version and, when I’m satisfied that
there’s a marked improvement, I submit a new merge request
to gather additional feedback. I then send Jonathan a message to
ask if he can review it later today. After lunch, I’m invited to a meeting
where the marketing department explains that they need a new feature to
monitor the effectiveness of their campaigns. One of the senior software engineers, Marie,
mentions that she’s previously developed a React-based front-end for a management
dashboard that we could easily reuse. I’m tasked with creating a minimum viable product (MVP) for a small team in the marketing
department to trial and provide feedback on. I’ve not used React before, but this is a great
chance to get some hands-on experience with it while still making a contribution to the team. Learning on the job and developing new skills is
an important part of a Software Engineer’s role. On my return from the meeting, I find that
Jonathan has reviewed my code and approved the merge request. He’s impressed with the
speed of the code and with my coding style. It’s really helpful to get regular feedback
from more experienced members of the team who can suggest alternative
ways of solving problems. I’ve also received a bug report notification for
one of the features I was working on last week. When I review the full report, I quickly
spot the mistake and begin fixing it. To check that the fix and the original
functionality work as expected, I develop and run a test case for the feature. It passes, so I submit a merge request
for my fix and resolve the bug. Now I’m free to start researching React. I
spend the rest of the afternoon reviewing the React documentation, watching videos, and
reading blogs to give me an overview of React. I then contact Marie to ask for access to the
front-end she developed so I can review the existing solution. This gives me design ideas
and inspires me to start planning my dashboard. On my cycle home, my head is buzzing
with thoughts about how the new dashboard will look and the functionality I can provide
through it. Tomorrow can’t come quickly enough!
Welcome to Skills Required for Software Engineering.
After watching this video, you will be able to differentiate between hard and soft skills, describe the hard skills needed by a software engineer, and describe the soft skills needed by a software engineer. Hard skills are the practical skills needed to perform a particular role, so for a software engineer these will be the technical skills they need to design, build, maintain, and repair software solutions. Hard skills are learned skills. In the case of software engineering, they are usually learned in a school, college, or university environment, or by studying online courses, diplomas, or certificates. Alternatively, they can be gained from years of experience in the field. Hard skills are quantifiable, so it’s easy to measure whether an individual can demonstrate a particular skill and to certify them in that skill. Commonly required hard skills in the software engineering sphere include programming languages, version control, cloud computing, testing and debugging, monitoring, troubleshooting, Agile development, and database architecture. Now, Soft skills on the other hand are less tangible. They are your personal characteristics and interpersonal skills. They’re the non-technical skills that are part of your personality and as such, are harder to define, quantify, or certify than hard skills. Because they’re not linked to a particular business though, they are easily transferable between roles and across industries. The job requirements for any role will be a combination of hard skills and soft skills. So, let’s look at some of the hard skills that are relevant to a software engineer. Software analysis and design skills are essential for a software engineer. You need to be able to analyze your users’ needs through a variety of methods and then design effective solutions that meet those needs. You also need to be able to develop those solutions. Computer programming and coding are essential development skills. While some job roles require a specific language and/or toolset, employers will sometimes welcome you with experience in any language but expect you to cross-train into their preferred language. The coding bootcamp website, Coding Dojo, states that some of the most in-demand languages are currently Java, Python, C#, and Ruby. An understanding of a variety of frameworks and object-oriented principles are also key skills for a software engineer. While you’d hope to always create flawless solutions, it is likely that at times your code will either not work or not work in the way that you intended. You need testing skills to determine whether your code meets the functional specification of the solution and if it’s easy to use. And when your code isn’t working as expected, you need debugging skills to work out why. And when your solution is complete, you need deployment skills to distribute it to your users. These could include shell scripting, containers, and continuous integration and continuous delivery (or CI/CD) tools. You’ll also need monitoring skills so that you can review the performance of your solutions and troubleshooting skills to resolve any issues that may occur. So now let’s look at the soft skills of a software engineer. Teamwork is a key soft skill. Software engineers work in a variety of teams, some based on the project they’re working on and some based on their specific role. If you’re practicing Agile development, you may also work in small teams known as squads. And you might also work closely alongside another developer in pair programming. Working in teams enables you to take advantage of each individual’s strengths as well as providing opportunities for you to gain new knowledge and skills. You’ll need to be able to communicate with a wide variety of stakeholders in your project – from technical colleagues to non-technical personnel. For example, you may need to ask: your peers for support and ideas, your manager for guidance and direction, your client for clarification of their needs, and your users how they’d best interact with your solution. Software solutions are often time-sensitive projects and as such, your manager will be keen that you meet their deadlines. Managing your own time is imperative to ensure that you don’t cause delays to others waiting for your work. And with increasing numbers of teams working across time-zones, what could previously only seem like a small local delay can create a whole day of lost time for someone located elsewhere in the world. Software engineers need great problem-solving skills to succeed. You need them: in the design phase to work out how to create an appropriate software solution, in the development phase to work out the code required to perform the task required, in the testing and debugging phase to locate and resolve any bugs, and throughout the lifecycle of the software to manage any issues that may arise. And when those issues do arise, you need to be adaptable to meet the changing needs of the project. Examples of changes include: Your client requesting a change or addition to the functionality, Your manager requesting you to move onto a different area to meet a looming deadline, Or your user requesting an alternative method of achieving a specific task. And finally, you need to be open to feedback on your work. Most software teams use some type of peer review system where peers review each other’s code. This helps enforce any corporate standards and improves the code. In a junior role, you’ll also likely have a mentor who’ll provide feedback and pointers where you can improve. And your stakeholders will provide feedback on pre-release and final versions of your solution. Accepting all of this feedback in an open and welcoming way ensures that your solution becomes the best that it can be and that you progress in your role. In this video, you learned that: a combination of hard and soft skills are essential to a software engineer. Hard skills are measurable, learned skills such as: Programming, testing, and troubleshooting, And, soft skills are your personality and characteristics, such as communication and problem solving.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Advice
to Future Software Engineers. In this video, we will hear from software
engineers discussing their advice to those who are considering getting into the field. Practice, you should practice all the time,
you should learn new skills as much as you can. There are a lot of free resources out there
that you can use to help you build new projects, I think the best way to continue working on
your craft is to learn not only learn new things, but also use them to build new projects. It can doesn't matter if it's something that's
been done before the point is that you're doing it now. And you're using the tools that you've used
to build something new. The most important thing for my career has
been finding a business domain that I am interested in, that has what that have looked like, not
low hanging fruits, but interesting problems to grapple with. The interesting problems for you are certainly
going to be the different than the interesting problems for me. But if you narrow down those, if you narrow
down the domains that you're interested in, that can really help tailor both of the things
that you study the types of jobs that you apply for. I have other friends where their domain, the
domains that they're super interested in is like, like, machine learning, like they're
just nuts for machine learning. And so they'll do anything that they can exercise,
like, an artificial intelligence kind of thrust to the whatever business problem it is that
they're working on. So like find that general domain, and then
kind of like, dive in on that one. But don't be don't be scared to fail either. I think the beauty about what's one of the
one of the beauties about software engineering and, and the way that tech is evolving, is
there's there are a lot of opportunities and it will continue to be new opportunities. And you know, there's lots of movement in
the industry. So if you take a job and you really are excited
about it, but you know, it ends up not working out as well. You can always think, you know, move to somewhere
else. There's lots of different types of lots of
roles, lots of companies, all that sort of people move around so don't don't don't let
a one potential failure either mean, you give up, I think it's wouldn't be a failure. Yes, so my best advice for those looking to
get into the software engineering industry is to figure out what role you want to get
into, make a list of the required skills for that role and find free resources to
start learning online. So when I was exposed to coding in 2018, after
trying a few technologies, I decided that I wanted to be a front end engineer or a front
end developer. And so I made a list of all the skills that
I needed. And I started learning those skills using
like free or low cost resources online. I think being careful about what sort of hot
and new there's, there's often this is more specifically to like taking I think taking
jobs and and how do you find like a good role and fit for you? I know a lot of companies will often sort
of market themselves as being you know, we're, we're we're working with XYZ new technology. It's, it's super, super hot. And it's like the latest and greatest and
almost use use buzzwords as a way to attract people. So just, you know, be inquisitive and ask
clarifying questions. Be wary in that sense. You are cautious when it comes to some of
the buzzwords and new things and just know what you're getting into. Don't neglect the job hunt process. Pay due attention to that. Because if you just study and don't pay attention
to the job hunt process, you're going to get frustrated because you're going to finish
one phase, and then have a long period of frustration and self doubt after that. So if you can do the job hunt phase in preparation,
sort of in parallel with the latter half of your learning journey, I think you're going
to be prepared to hit the market hard when you're ready. And it's just a question of time after that
time.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Advice
to Women in Software Engineering. In this video, we will hear from software
engineers discussing their advice to women in the field or who are considering getting
into the field. I think recently, there have been a lot of
good positive momentum, and diversification of the industry and making, making software
engineering a more welcoming place for women in general. So, I come from work environments that are
you know, primarily women. And now I'm in a work environment that is
primarily men. I think I've had a pretty good experience
with my coworkers personally. But in the beginning, it did very much feel
like a little bit kind of like you're alone because you know, you're either the only or
one of two or three women on your team. I would say just remind yourself that you
actually do deserve to be there that you actually do belong. You do belong there, and everybody started
exactly where you are. Everybody who started as an engineer and even
at your company started and was like I do not know what's going on. But you're capable and you'll figure it out. If you're a software developer at a company,
your main job should be software development. And if your bosses or management or other
people in the company want you to do other types of work, you should be getting compensated
for it, you should have a title that reflects what it is that you do. And I have seen this happen a lot where the
woman on the team will be the one who cares about diversity, for instance. And so as part of diversity workshops and
clubs at the at the company and is participating in diverse hiring events and doing all sorts
of like extra training around that side, that side of things, then review time happens. And as a software developer, if you're getting
reviewed on code, you need to make sure that you're getting enough of that code in your
life. Everyone needs to contribute. Everyone needs to pull their weight; it can't
all go on one person. Join a team that does make you feel like they
do support women and want to elevate women and advocate for women. So I think it's very fair to ask directly
to say, a hiring manager, you know, what, what is your plan for diversity on your team? What types of programs do you or the organization
or company have in place to, to ensure that woman are successful, and you know, be willing
and open to speak up if there's something that you think is uncomfortable. It's not all on you to fix if something is
broken, there are other people involved. And they also are adults who should be reasonable
human beings, and able to take advice and constructive feedback. So let them take that advice and constructive
feedback. You don't have to do all the changing. never be compelled to join a team where you're
not feeling good about it, or you think that there's a risk that it's not a welcoming,
so ask other people to I think it's very fair to just ask those questions. Don't stay, don't stay, if you don't like
it, the company needs you more than you need them almost certainly. So, leave when you can, if something isn't
working out for you leave, you have that ability. And there are companies that have less of
that in their culture and less of that in their engineering teams. It can feel rough trying to find it sometimes. But if you do find yourself at a place that
is not a healthy, positive, growing environment for you leave, it doesn't reflect on you,
again, it reflects on the company. And I know, any company, or organization that's
even remotely taking diversity and inclusion seriously, simply with regards to women, will
have programs in place to support women, elevate women. And, you know, basically, there's an eye on
that, and there as there should be, there's a lot of effort being put into hiring women
and getting women into senior leadership roles, which I think is very important. Figure out what role you want and find free
resources to get into those roles. One thing to bear in mind is as a woman, you
know, we are a minority, and we are underrepresented in the tech industry. So, there are a lot of free or low-cost programs
tailored specifically to women who want to get into computing or who women who are in
computing looking to advance their careers.
Welcome to Job Outlook for Software Engineers. After watching this video, you will be able
to explain why demand is high for software engineers, describe the job outlook for a software engineer, describe what to expect from a software engineering
role and describe the employment options in software
engineering. There are various reasons behind the current
high demand for software engineers. Almost all industries need software to compete
and grow. This results in a continuous demand for software
engineers. Most organizations require applications and
websites for their company to function. Some apps and websites are for internal use,
while others are used to interact with customers. The Internet of Things is also driving the
need for software that interacts with products. This is a need that will continue to expand
for the foreseeable future. All types of software programs, from messaging
applications to commerce websites to office software, are available in different flavors
from different vendors. Whenever one vendor releases a new version
of their particular program, a competing company is likely to also update their program, requiring more software engineers to create
the new releases, enhance functionality, and add new capabilities. So, the outlook is bright for software engineers. The US Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts
a higher than average 22% job growth rate for software developers, analysts, and testers
from 2020 to 2030. That’s an average of almost 200,000 openings
each year – in the United States alone! These roles are likely to be across many industries,
from mobile application development to health and insurance. There is also predicted to be a large increase
in security software due to the increase in computer security threats and cyber-crime. Many software engineers are graduates with
degrees in software engineering or computer science. However, increasingly employers like IBM,
Google, and Tesla are starting to hire non-graduates who demonstrate the required skills for the
role. This opens software engineering up to a wider
range of society ensuring that the cost of obtaining a degree doesn’t preclude candidates
from the industry. Salaries for software engineers vary significantly
with years of experience in the field. As you acquire more experience and become
harder to replace, employers typically provide higher compensation. In the USA, salaries range from $90,000 for
a junior role through to $120,000 or higher for an experienced position. The average of $110,000 per annum for a software
engineer is more than 2.5 times the average base salary across the USA. This, alongside bonuses and benefits such
as medical insurance, gym membership, profit shares, and retirement plans make a software
engineering role an attractive proposition. So, what should you expect from a software
engineering role? Dress codes are unlikely to be formal unless
you’re in a customer facing situation. Hours are often flexible, sometimes around
core hours set in the middle of the day. You may occasionally be required to attend
meetings or calls which can dictate a physical or online presence at a particular time of
the day. The number of hours are likely to increase
as you get near to product release dates, often without any matching increase in pay. The flexibility to work from home varies across
employers, but there is no technological reasons why this cannot be done. In fact, some software teams are spread across
the globe, working across all hours of the day. Software engineer employers include almost
any type of business that you can imagine. From large technology companies such as Facebook,
Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google (also known as FAANG), to medium-sized software companies that develop
specific software and solutions, to small software houses and start-ups. And almost all large non-technology companies
like banks, retailers, and pharmaceuticals need software engineers for their own internal
or external systems. And lastly, most employers will encourage continual
learning, whether that be expanding your technical skills or enhancing your soft skills. They’re usually keen to invest in keeping
your skills up to date so that you can develop the best software solutions for them. Now in the software engineering world, regardless
of your job title, there are different employment options to suit your lifestyle and situation. Employed roles in a company or organization
provide stability and a regular income. These can range from an apprenticeship or
internship, to a part-time role, through to a full-time role. In software engineering, more so than a typical
job, there is a huge independent contracting market and opportunities in the gig economy. These can range from simple website development
to super-specialized skills, languages, stacks, and products. In this type of employment, you can provide
contract or consultancy services to organizations on a time-based or project-based model or you can work on a freelance basis taking
on short-term contracts to work on projects that interest you. And many software engineers also code for free
as volunteers contributing to open source projects. This can help you gain experience, enhance
your skills, improve your employment opportunities, and enhance your technical eminence. It also makes you feel good by doing something
for a cause or community or social initiative that’s important to you. In this video, you learned that: the high demand for software engineers is
due to increasing needs for software, increasing complexity of applications, and a continuing growth of technology the outlook for software engineers is promising the role of a software engineer can be flexible
and satisfying and that employment options for
software engineers are flexible and varied, from full-time employment through to voluntary
activities
Welcome to Career Paths in Software Engineering. After watching this video, you will be able
to describe typical career paths for a software
engineer, and identify the likely roles within career
paths. A career path in software engineering opens
up as you gain experience and attain new skills. Often it heads in one of two directions: technical
or management. If you thrive on working with code and solving
problems, then the technical path enables you to continue working closely with technology
as your career progresses. Or, if you exhibit strong leadership qualities
alongside the soft skills of a good software engineer, you might progress onto managing
a team of software engineers and the work that they do. So, let’s take a look at a common career
path for a software engineer progressing on the technical or managerial path. Remember that different organizations will
use different job titles, but the roles will be similar across the board. You’re likely to start out in an entry-level
position as a Junior Software Engineer or Associate Software Engineer. At this level you’ll be developing small
chunks of software to meet agreed client specifications. You’ll be assigned a team leader or mentor
who will guide you along the way and provide support when you need it. During this phase of your career, you’ll
be on a steep learning curve, gaining new skills and experience with every block of
code that you write. You could then move on to a Software Engineer
position. In this role you’ll be expected to be more
independent and able to able to break larger tasks down into smaller achievable sub-tasks. You may be learning new programming languages
and demonstrating an understanding of the software development lifecycle. At this stage, you might be asked to mentor
a junior software engineer or take responsibility for a larger part of a project. The next stage of your career could be a Senior
Software Engineer position. In this role you’re likely to have involvement
across the whole of a project and with an entire codebase. You may be asked to mentor software engineers
and to conduct code reviews across the team. And from the experience you’ve gained in
earlier roles, you’ll be expected to be able to solve a wide range of problems in
an efficient way. If you choose to follow the technical path,
then your next role might be as a Staff Software Engineer. In this role you’ll work as part of the
technical team developing, maintaining, and extending software. You’ll be responsible for ensuring that
the software meets customer and user expectations and that it uses resources efficiently. If you decide to follow a managerial career
path, you could become a Technical Lead. In this role you’ll manage the team of developers
and engineers developing the software in your organization. You could be responsible for the entire development
lifecycle and report to the project stakeholders. Continuing along the technical path, you might
progress to be a Principal Engineer or Technical Architect. At this stage you’ll be responsible for
the architecture and design of a software solution, as well as the development of it. You’ll be expected to create processes and
procedures for your team and provide technical direction. On the managerial path, you could become an
Engineering Manager. In this role, you’ll ensure that the entire
team is appropriately supported and encouraged to progress in their careers. Becoming a Director of Engineering could be
the next stage in the progression of your career. It is a strategic and technical role. On the strategic side, you’ll determine
priorities for the projects within the company, identify hiring needs, and define long term
goals. On the technical side of the role, you’ll
be involved in defining new projects, specifying requirements, and overseeing the project. The lead of an organization’s technology
arm is likely to be the Chief Technology Officer (or CTO). In this role, you oversee all of the research
and development in the company. You’ll also monitor the company’s systems
and infrastructure to ensure that it meets your needs and budget. Even at this level, you’ll continue learning. As technology evolves and new products appear
on the market, you’ll be responsible for deciding which ones meet your business needs
and could give your organization a competitive advantage. Of course, not everyone who starts out as
a Junior Software Engineer follows these traditional software engineering paths, but you’ll find
that the skills you gain will benefit you in a wide variety of other roles. If after working on client projects for a
while you decide that you prefer interacting with the clients to writing the code, you
could transition into a technical sales or customer support role. If you enjoy coding, but find working with
numbers and data is more appealing, you could transition into a data engineer or data scientist
role. And, if you find the data side of your new
role is your passion, you could move on to become a database administrator or database
developer. And if you enjoy finding and fixing bugs,
you might transition to a software tester role. IT is a vast field with an abundance of opportunities
across many skill sets, so starting your career in software engineering is a great choice
even if you use it as a stepping stone to move to other technical or leadership roles
in the future. In this video, you learned that: A career in software engineering is likely
to follow a technical or managerial path. At each stage on that path, you will take
on more responsibility and a wider range of tasks. And, starting out as a software engineer enables
you to take an array of other options at any stage in your career.
Welcome to Application Deployment Environments.
After watching this video you will also be able to: List different types of pre-production environments
and state their purpose. Differentiate a production environment from
other application environments. And compare and contrast deployment options. An application environment is the combination
of the hardware and software resources required to run an application. This includes:
the application code and/or binary executables for its various components or modules the software stack it requires for running
the application such as modules and libraries it depends on, third party applications and
middleware, and the operating system, any networking components and infrastructure,
as well as any physical or virtual hardware including
computing or processing resources, memory, and storage. There are a variety of environment types depending
on the application’s stage in the lifecycle. The pre-production environments are those
platforms that the application resides on in various forms as it gets prepared for production.
Common pre-production environments are “development,” “QA,” which stands
for quality assurance, and “staging.” The development environment is the platform
on which the application is being actively coded, and in many cases it may just be
the developer's workstation. The QA environment, sometimes called “testing”
is the environment that allows the QA team to test the application’s components. The staging environment is the environment
that is as close to replicating the production environment as possible but is not meant for
general users. Now, let’s discuss the production environment. The production environment, often just called
“production” includes the entire solution stack consisting of both hardware
and software on which the application runs as additional infrastructure components. The production environment is intended for
all users. Unlike the pre-production environments, this
robust environment must take the application “load” into consideration because it is
the environment intended for general use, possibly by thousands or millions of people
at the same time for enterprise-level applications. Production environments must also take into
account non-functional requirements like security, reliability, and scalability. This makes the production environment more
complicated than the pre-production ones. Now, let’s take a look at the production
environment infrastructure. There are several options for deploying application
environments. In on-premises deployment, the system and
its infrastructure reside in-house, within the organization’s physical location, often
behind a firewall. Firewalls prevent unauthorized access to or from a private
network. If an organization desires greater security
or control of an application and the data in use by that application, it may deploy
the application on-premises. For on-premises software deployments, an organization
is responsible for the system, hardware, related infrastructure, and maintenance required to
run the application. On-premises deployment is usually more expensive
when compared to cloud deployment. Let’s discuss cloud deployments next. There are three types of Cloud deployment
models—public, private, and hybrid. The public cloud is when you leverage the
software’s supporting infrastructure over the open internet on hardware owned by the
cloud provider. That hardware and the associated services are shared with other companies.
Public cloud providers include Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud
Platform, and IBM Cloud. The public cloud is the most common due to its scalability
and cost. With a private cloud, the cloud infrastructure
is provisioned for exclusive use by a single organization. The software system can be run
on-premises, or the infrastructure could be owned, managed, and operated by a service
provider. For example, AWS is also a private cloud service provider. The main advantage
of a private cloud is increased security, but it also allows for more flexibility because
it can be fully customized. A mix of both public and private clouds, working
together seamlessly, is called a hybrid cloud model. A hybrid cloud potentially optimizes
the advantages of both public and private cloud models with regard to cost, security,
scalability, and flexibility. In this video you learned that: Application environments include: development,
testing or QA, staging, and production. Production environments must also take into
account non-functional requirements like load, security, reliability, and scalability. And application environments can be deployed either
on-premises on traditional hardware, or on public, private, or hybrid cloud platforms.
Welcome to production deployment components. After watching this video you will be
able to: Describe components commonly required for
deployment in a production environment. Describe the purpose of a firewall and a load
balancer. And differentiate between different types of servers. Let’s consider an n-tier architecture required
to deploy an application in a production environment and represent the infrastructure using a diagram. The top tier is the presentation tier which
contains the front-end client applications. All of the other tiers are located behind
a firewall. Firewalls and other components mentioned
in this diagram will be discussed in further detail later in the video. The next tier is the web tier which has a
web load balancer that distributes incoming traffic to several web servers. The tier below the web tier is the application
server tier. This tier contains an app load balancer or
a proxy server that routes traffic to different application servers. The bottom tier is the data tier that contains
the database server. A high availability replica of the database
is often also used to ensure reliability. Some environments may have additional components
or tiers. Also not all of these components are necessary
for every deployment. For example, in some environments there might not be a need for
both application servers in addition to web servers. Now, let’s look at these components in further
detail. A firewall is a security device that monitors
traffic between networks. It permits or blocks requested data based
on a set of security rules. It acts as a barrier between networks to block
viruses, malware, and hackers from accessing the internal network. The purpose of load balancers is to distribute
network traffic efficiently amongst multiple servers, called a server farm, on a network. Load balancers are used to prevent server
traffic overload and are located between clients and the servers. A load balancer determines which servers are
capable of fulfilling those requirements in a manner that maximizes availability and responsiveness. Load balancers ensure that no one server is
overworked. They manage concurrent requests from clients
and return the correct data in a fast and reliable manner. Web and application servers are either software
or machines that provides services, resources, data, or applications to another computer
program, called the client. Servers store, process, and manage network
data, devices, and systems. A web server delivers content such as web
pages, files, images, and videos to a client. And a web server primarily responds to hypertext
transfer protocol requests coming from a web browser such as a user accessing a website. An app server is a server that runs business
logic and provides the application to the client rather than the client running the
app on their own machine. Its primary job is to enable interaction between
the end-user and the server-side application code. The application code represents the business
logic that determines how data can be created, stored, and changed. And that logic dictates things like transaction
results and what data is written to and retrieved from a database. A proxy server is an intermediate server that
sits in between two tiers and handles requests between those tiers. A proxy server can serve multiple purposes
such as load balancing, system optimization, caching, acting as a firewall, obscuring the
source of the request, encryption, scanning for malware, and more. And a proxy server can improve the efficiency,
privacy, and security of data flowing through a network. Finally, a database is a collection of related data,
stored on a computer that can be accessed in various ways. A database is usually controlled by software
called a database management system or DBMS. The DBMS controls a database by connecting
the database to users or other programs. The database server controls the flow and
storage of data. The DBMS connects the database server to an
application so data stored in the database can be retrieved or manipulated by the application. In this video you learned that: Common components needed for a production
environment include a firewall, a load balancer, web and application servers, proxy servers,
and database servers. A firewall is a security device that monitors
traffic between networks. A load balancer distributes network traffic
amongst servers. A web server delivers content such as web
pages, files, images, and videos to a client. An application server runs business logic
and provides the application to the client rather than the client running the app on
their own machine and finally, a database server stores and controls the
flow of data through a database management system.
Welcome to Career Paths in Software Engineering. After watching this video, you will be able
to describe typical career paths for a software
engineer, and identify the likely roles within career
paths. A career path in software engineering opens
up as you gain experience and attain new skills. Often it heads in one of two directions: technical
or management. If you thrive on working with code and solving
problems, then the technical path enables you to continue working closely with technology
as your career progresses. Or, if you exhibit strong leadership qualities
alongside the soft skills of a good software engineer, you might progress onto managing
a team of software engineers and the work that they do. So, let’s take a look at a common career
path for a software engineer progressing on the technical or managerial path. Remember that different organizations will
use different job titles, but the roles will be similar across the board. You’re likely to start out in an entry-level
position as a Junior Software Engineer or Associate Software Engineer. At this level you’ll be developing small
chunks of software to meet agreed client specifications. You’ll be assigned a team leader or mentor
who will guide you along the way and provide support when you need it. During this phase of your career, you’ll
be on a steep learning curve, gaining new skills and experience with every block of
code that you write. You could then move on to a Software Engineer
position. In this role you’ll be expected to be more
independent and able to able to break larger tasks down into smaller achievable sub-tasks. You may be learning new programming languages
and demonstrating an understanding of the software development lifecycle. At this stage, you might be asked to mentor
a junior software engineer or take responsibility for a larger part of a project. The next stage of your career could be a Senior
Software Engineer position. In this role you’re likely to have involvement
across the whole of a project and with an entire codebase. You may be asked to mentor software engineers
and to conduct code reviews across the team. And from the experience you’ve gained in
earlier roles, you’ll be expected to be able to solve a wide range of problems in
an efficient way. If you choose to follow the technical path,
then your next role might be as a Staff Software Engineer. In this role you’ll work as part of the
technical team developing, maintaining, and extending software. You’ll be responsible for ensuring that
the software meets customer and user expectations and that it uses resources efficiently. If you decide to follow a managerial career
path, you could become a Technical Lead. In this role you’ll manage the team of developers
and engineers developing the software in your organization. You could be responsible for the entire development
lifecycle and report to the project stakeholders. Continuing along the technical path, you might
progress to be a Principal Engineer or Technical Architect. At this stage you’ll be responsible for
the architecture and design of a software solution, as well as the development of it. You’ll be expected to create processes and
procedures for your team and provide technical direction. On the managerial path, you could become an
Engineering Manager. In this role, you’ll ensure that the entire
team is appropriately supported and encouraged to progress in their careers. Becoming a Director of Engineering could be
the next stage in the progression of your career. It is a strategic and technical role. On the strategic side, you’ll determine
priorities for the projects within the company, identify hiring needs, and define long term
goals. On the technical side of the role, you’ll
be involved in defining new projects, specifying requirements, and overseeing the project. The lead of an organization’s technology
arm is likely to be the Chief Technology Officer (or CTO). In this role, you oversee all of the research
and development in the company. You’ll also monitor the company’s systems
and infrastructure to ensure that it meets your needs and budget. Even at this level, you’ll continue learning. As technology evolves and new products appear
on the market, you’ll be responsible for deciding which ones meet your business needs
and could give your organization a competitive advantage. Of course, not everyone who starts out as
a Junior Software Engineer follows these traditional software engineering paths, but you’ll find
that the skills you gain will benefit you in a wide variety of other roles. If after working on client projects for a
while you decide that you prefer interacting with the clients to writing the code, you
could transition into a technical sales or customer support role. If you enjoy coding, but find working with
numbers and data is more appealing, you could transition into a data engineer or data scientist
role. And, if you find the data side of your new
role is your passion, you could move on to become a database administrator or database
developer. And if you enjoy finding and fixing bugs,
you might transition to a software tester role. IT is a vast field with an abundance of opportunities
across many skill sets, so starting your career in software engineering is a great choice
even if you use it as a stepping stone to move to other technical or leadership roles
in the future. In this video, you learned that: A career in software engineering is likely
to follow a technical or managerial path. At each stage on that path, you will take
on more responsibility and a wider range of tasks. And, starting out as a software engineer enables
you to take an array of other options at any stage in your career.
Welcome to Software Development Methodologies. After watching this video, you will be able
to list several commonly used approaches to the
software development life cycle, explain waterfall, V-shape model, and Agile
methods, and compare the pros and cons of each of these
three methods. There are many ways to approach software development. A specific methodology for developing software
is commonly used in order to assist the development team to clarify communication among team members
and determine how and when the information is shared. In this video, we will discuss three of these
approaches: Waterfall, V-shape model, and Agile. In the beginning, when the SDLC was conceived,
it implemented what is known as the waterfall method. Waterfall is a sequential method of software
development where the output of one phase is the input for the next phase of the cycle. Development and work on the next phase start
only after the completion of the previous phase. All planning, such as defining requirements
and architectural design, is done up front. The customer usually does not see the product
until it is in the testing phase. For a major version release of the product,
the same process is repeated resulting in long intervals, such as years, between releases. The V-shape model is named as such because
the phases form the shape of a V. The phases going down the left side of the
V are called “verification". Then, going up the right side of the V, those
phases are called, "validation." The V-shape model is like waterfall in that
it is also sequential. Each phase in verification corresponds with
a validation phase. There are four stages that occur on each side
of the V. Going down the V are planning, system design, architecture design, and then module
design. The bottom of the V is the coding phase. And going back up the V are the four phases that
correspond to the phases going down the V: unit testing, integration testing, system testing, and acceptance testing. The tests are written during the verification
phases on the left and executed during the validation stages on the right. Now, the Agile model is different. It focuses on a collaborative software development
process over multiple short cycles rather than a strictly top-down linear process. Agile is what is called an iterative approach
to development. It still aligns with the SDLC, but each phase
is short. Teams work in cycles, or sprints, which are
usually one to four weeks long. Unit testing happens in each sprint to minimize
the risk of failure. Rather than the “maintenance” stage of
the SDLC, the final stage of the sprint is a feedback stage. At the end of each sprint, a chunk of working
code is released at a meeting called the “sprint demo” where stakeholders can see the new
functionality and provide feedback. After the sprint demo, the entire process
is repeated for every sprint cycle. After several sprint cycles, a minimum viable
product, or MVP, is developed so stakeholders can provide feedback on the basic feature
set. The MVP contains a feature set to validate
assumptions about the software. The four core values of Agile development
outlined in what is known as the "Agile manifesto" are: individuals and interactions over processes
and tools working software over comprehensive documentation customer collaboration over contract negotiation,
and responding to change over following a plan. The main difference between traditional SDLC
methods such as waterfall and the v-shape model compared to
the Agile method of software development is the
former are sequential whereas Agile is cyclical. Traditional SDLC methods, such as waterfall
and V-shape, center around the whole product being developed before soliciting customer
feedback, whereas Agile focuses on quick, short bursts of development. There are pros and cons to each method, though Agile is probably
the most popular method used in modern software development. Regarding the pros of the waterfall method,
it is easy to understand and follow. Each stage is discrete and well-defined, making
it easy for all team members to understand their roles. Also, since planning is done upfront, it is
easier than iterative methods to estimate a budget and allocate resources. That said, waterfall lacks flexibility. Since all planning is done upfront if a requirement
is changed or overlooked that change can be hard to incorporate at a later date. Inevitably, unforeseen complications happen,
or agreed upon functionality shifts from what was initially envisioned. Like waterfall, the V-shape model is simple
and easy to use. It is even more rigid than waterfall but designing test plans during the verification
phase saves considerable time during coding and validation phases. Drawbacks are also similar to waterfall because
it does not readily accommodate changing requirements. Once an application is in the testing phase
it is extremely difficult to go back and change functionality. Agile development is different, relying on
ongoing research, planning, and testing during product development. When adding new features to a project, development
still goes through the same phases as in traditional SDLC, but with Agile, new, and changing requirements
are handled quickly and easily because planning is initiated at the beginning of each sprint
cycle. Most resources are spent on the building phase. At the end of each cycle, the QA team, stakeholders,
and the customer have some piece of working code to test against requirements and are
encouraged to provide feedback. As coding languages and technologies have
developed in recent years, they now allow for modular design, where developers can focus
on smaller chunks of code that are readily integrated into the larger product. These small chunks can be released to provide
the MVP. Cons of Agile are that upfront planning such
as budgeting and scheduling can be challenging because the overall scope of the product is not clearly
defined. In this video, you learned that: Three of the common approaches to software
development include waterfall, V-shape model, and Agile waterfall and V-shape are sequential whereas
Agile is iterative both waterfall and V-shape models are easy
to implement but neither accommodates changing requirements well and Agile allows for changing requirements but
resource allocation can be challenging.
Welcome to Software Engineering Job Titles. After watching this video, you will be able
to list commonly used job titles for software
engineers, and identify the primary duties of and skills
needed for these roles. Job titles such as software engineer and software
developer are very broad and can be used to describe a spectrum of roles. As well as these titles, you may come across
other titles related to specific sub-domains in software engineering. While individual organizations might use company-specific
job titles, you’ll find that most fit into one of the more generic titles. Types of software engineer roles include: Front-end engineer Back-end engineer Full-stack engineer DevOps engineer Software quality assurance engineer Software integration engineer Software security engineer Mobile app developer and Games developer Front-end engineers focus on developing the
user interface, or UI, of a software solution. They’re also sometimes referred to as UI
developers or web developers. In this type of role, you’re responsible
for the visual design of the software, including the layout of UI elements and the overall
aesthetics of the application or website. It’s important for a front-end developer
to understand how users interact with software and the principles of user experience design. You’ll also need to understand how objects
and code run differently on different operating systems, devices, and browsers to ensure that
your solution works on the user’s chosen system. Key skills of a front-end engineer include: web development languages and
UX and UI frameworks. Back-end engineers focus on the business logic
of a software solution. In this type of role, you’re responsible for the core logic of the software
implementing functionality to perform tasks such as accessing data and databases, logging information, and caching systems by
using application programming interfaces, or APIs. You’ll also be responsible for ensuring
the scalability and performance of the solution. Key skills of a back-end engineer include programming languages, application frameworks, web servers, app servers, and load balancers, databases. and deployment and containerization tools
and technologies. Full-stack engineers work across the whole
software solution. In this type of role, you’re able to create both the user interface and the back-end functionality
of an application or website using the skills of both front-end and back-end engineers. Key skills of a full-stack engineer include web development languages, programming languages, UX, UI, and backend frameworks, web and application servers, databases, APIs and web services, and deployment and containerization tools. DevOps, or development and operations, aims
to deliver software in an agile manner by combining software development and IT operations. DevOps engineers apply agile processes and
methodologies to streamline their product development, improvement, and maintenance as well as transcend the boundaries of the
traditionally distinct development and operations teams. In a DevOps role you need familiarity with
both front-end and back-end technologies. The skills, technologies, and products that
a DevOps engineer is likely to use include source code management tools, programming languages and frameworks, scripts, and deployment, containerization,
and monitoring tools. Depending on the actual job posting, you might
use alternative products and services, but they will be of a similar nature to those
shown here. Software quality assurance engineers, also
referred to as software QA engineers or software test engineers, test, review, assess, and
write software to validate the quality of an application. In a QA role, you’ll develop automated tests,
tools, and procedures to test the functionality of software solutions. You’ll use bug tracking software to log
any errors you discover and report them to the software development team. The key skills for software QA engineers include programming languages, shell scripting, bug tracking and issue management tools, testing automation tools, And specific software stacks depending on
how the application is deployed. Software integration engineers write code
to integrate software into hardware products enabling smart devices and the internet of things products. In this role, you’ll use programming languages
and frameworks to program hardware such as consumer devices, home security systems, electronics,
and other interfaces. The key skills for a software integration
engineer include programming languages and proprietary technologies, frameworks, and
toolkits. Software security engineers, sometimes referred
to as white hat or ethical hackers, work to find security flaws and vulnerabilities
in software. As a security engineer, you’ll create systems,
methods, and procedures to test software solutions and exploit their security weaknesses so that
they can be fixed before the solution ships. The key skills for a security engineer include programming languages, reverse engineering, shell scripting, tools for vulnerability and penetration testing, and network security and encryption tools. Mobile app developers design, develop, and
implement software solutions for mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. You’ll use web skills to create front-end
apps as well as learn the various different platforms to write the back-end code interacting
with the specific type of device. The key skills of a mobile app developer include mobile operating systems, web development languages, programming languages, as well as Web services and technologies. Games engineers write gaming software for
a wide variety of devices, from PCs, to smartphones, to web browsers,
to games consoles. As a games developer, you’ll work alongside
graphic artists, sound technicians, and game designers to create the code used in games. In this video, you learned that there are many different job titles under
the umbrella term of software engineering, each of which has specific duties and responsibilities, and requires a specific set of skills.
Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Career
Pathways and Continuing Education in Software Engineering. In this video, we will hear from experts discussing
how they became software engineers, their education, and their background. So I have a non traditional path into software
engineering, my bachelor's degree is in social work. And I worked as a social worker
for some time, I was introduced to coding via social media, randomly on social media,
I was scrolling in December 2018. And afterwards, I kind of fell down the rabbit
hole of learning how to program and I decided to go to a 10 month long, very intense coding
boot camp to make the switch into software engineering. And so one thing I have learned over the past
three, three and a half years, is that your career doesn't have to be linear, and your
career doesn't have to look like anyone else's I just picked computer science, I love math. That's the only thing that I think really
drew me to computer science was oh, it's if you love math, apparently, you will love computer
science too. So I think some of the most successful engineers
that I, that worked for me, or I've worked with, come from backgrounds, not even sort
of, like mine, neither people with like, with non-technical backgrounds, who picked up coding
on the side, there's so many folks who come from, from
you know, they are English majors or philosophy majors or bio, whatever it is. Because I think there's this you can you can
learn all these skills and become a really strong engineer, without having gone to a
four year college or, or more for computer science, specifically, or, or another engineering
role. And so in college, I ended up taking what
was it, applied math, I did applied math as my major. I want to I always wanted to work on things
that had a practical application, which is why I went into applied mathematics rather
than pure mathematics anyway. Yeah, so I did that research program. And as part of that program, we were writing
simulations, using MATLAB actually. That was a fun time. So we were writing simulations using MATLAB,
and I realized I enjoyed that part more than I enjoyed the mathematical research part of
it. And that's kind of what kicked it all off. Like, oh, computers are a lot of fun. So I ended up graduating college with an Applied
Math major, Computer Science minor. And then I've been taking computer science
jobs ever since then. So I received a Bachelor of Fine Art, actually. So not anything tech related. And I worked in education for a few years,
I ended up as an art teacher. And it was during that time that I decided
that I wanted to switch paths because I wanted a little bit more freedom. With my job more flexible schedule, I
wanted the opportunity to work remotely. So I decided to take a class to see if I would
like it at a community college near my house. And I really, really loved that class. And at the same time, kind of just watch videos
on Udemy and YouTube and teach myself some things that I wasn't learning in class. I took 32 credits at the community college
level. And then after that, I did apply to graduate
school. While in grad school, I received an internship
offer at my current company and did a summer internship and directly following that I started
full time. Next, we will hear from these experts regarding
how they maintain their skills and keep up with the continuous technology evolution. I follow people on Twitter who talk about
emerging technologies and new technologies. I also subscribe to this newsletter called
TLDR. And they pretty much just surmise everything that's going on
in the tech industry. That's what I like to do to keep up to date. And I also take various courses on things that
are interesting to me. Yeah, I think just just carving out time to
learn, whether it's within your often companies will give people some amount of time to for
personal development and growth which can be which can mean taking courses to learn
new languages or frameworks. I've found that I learned best if I have a
project that makes me need to learn the thing. So I started with Googling, like, honestly,
Reddit threads, frequently are the best places to find out about like, what are the popular
and new technologies these days. If you just search on Google for like, the
best website framework, Reddit 2022, you'll find numerous posts of people debating the
pros and cons of different types of frameworks. And then actually, another very important
thing is debug it. Attach a debugger put in print statements. Do everything you can to be able to inspect
the flow of the code that is getting that is getting run. Knowing how to debug is about almost equally
an important skill as knowing how to write the code. But the way that I kind of keep on top of
everything is reading documentation. I have really great coworkers who are always
also in the know of like, when things are updated when languages are updated when to
use new new technologies. So they helped me out a lot there. And we also get Udemy for free, like Udemy
business for free for all employees, which is a really great way to learn new things
and also stay on top of new technologies that that come out.
Welcome to Software Engineering Code of Ethics.After watching this video, you will be able to: State each of the eight principles in the Software Engineering Code of Ethics. And, explain each of the eight principles in the Software Engineering Code of Ethics. The Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices developed a Code of Ethics outlining their goals and standards for software engineers engaged in the design and creation of software. The task force was formed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society or IEEE-CS and the Association for Computing Machinery or ACM in order to recognize the prominence of computing in global commerce, government, and society. This IEEE-CS ACM joint task force championed the need to hold software engineers accountable so that the present and future status of the field as a beneficial and respected profession is maintained. The Code of Ethics consists of eight principles that pertain to the specification analysis, design, development, testing, and maintenance of software, and are dedicated to serving the public interest. These principles are intended for anyone who is in or related to the profession, and includes engineers, mentors, instructors, managers, students, and policymakers. Here, we will summarize each principle. However, the full text of each principle and its additional clarifying clauses can be found on the IEEE-CS and ACM websites. The principles in the software engineering code of ethics focus on the following topics: Public Client or employer Product Judgement Management Profession Colleagues Self. The public principle comes first because it is expected that software engineers should act primarily in accordance to positively affect the public good. This includes accepting responsibility for their work with regard to safety, fairness, accessibility, and integrity. Next, software engineers should act in the best interests of both the clients and their employers. They should act honestly and be forthright when it comes to unethical actions such as plagiarism or illegal activities. They should seek consent where necessary and appropriate and honor confidentiality. The third principle relates to the product under production. Software engineers should seek quality while keeping in mind cost and timelines. This next principle outlines how software engineers act with integrity and independence in their professional judgment. They are expected to maintain objectivity and honesty when working with the software and relevant documents they are involved with. Software engineers should not engage in any inappropriate financial activities such as bribery and double billing, nor may they accept duties that create a conflict of interest. Software engineering managers and leaders should also behave in a manner consistent with these principles where it applies to them and those they manage. They should work to minimize risk and employ security procedures. Managers and leaders should also work to ensure realistic expectations of their staff, provide just compensation, and procure intellectual property rights whenever appropriate. The profession is principle describes the duty of software engineers to protect the reputation of the profession by acting with integrity and not elevating themselves at the expense of others. Software engineers should let managers, employers, and clients know they intend to act in compliance with this code of ethics and express concern over violations of the code. Similar to the profession principle, software engineers shall treat their colleagues with respect and fairness. They should encourage their peers to comply with this code of ethics and not take credit for the work of others. The final principle, focused on the software engineer themselves reminds software engineers about the importance of lifelong learning and professional development. They should endeavor to create quality software and strive to conduct themselves in a professional manner. It should be noted that this code of ethics is not a replacement for conscientious decision-making and common sense, but it can be used as a supplemental guide. Knowing when and where to apply these principles will always be up to the discretion and wisdom of the individual. In this video, you learned that: The code of ethics serves the public interest to hold software engineers accountable in the analysis, design, development, testing, and maintenance of software The eight principles in the code of ethics are Public Client or /employer Product Judgement Management Profession Colleagues and Self.
Welcome to Software Versions. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Discuss software versions on computing platforms and identify software versions and numbering. Software versions tell us a lot about programs
and applications. Users can determine what software version
they are using, and developers can provide useful information with version numbers. Software version numbers vary in length and
meaning; however, most version numbers follow a similar format and represent similar information. Version numbers indicate when the software
was released, when it was updated, and if any minor changes or patches were made to
the software. Software versioning is how software developers
keep track of new software, updates, and patches for programs and applications. Version numbers can be displayed in several
ways. Version numbers can be short or long, depending
on the software and the preference of the developer, with 2, 3, or 4 number sets. Each number set is divided by a period. The first release of an application or program
might have a 1.0 as the version number to indicate no updates, patches, or fixes to
the software. Note: A version still in beta or testing could
have a version number lower than 1, such as 0.9. A program or application with many releases
and updates will have a longer number, sometimes 4 different number sets within the version
number Some software developers may use dates for
their versioning. For example: Ubuntu Linux version 18.04.2
was released in 2018 April. The third number set, point-2, designates
an additional change or update. What do these numbers mean? Some version numbers follow the semantic numbering
system and have 4 parts separated by a period, but not all numbering systems follow this
4-part example. In semantic numbering, the first number indicates
major changes to the software, such as a new release. The second number indicates that minor changes
were made to the software. The third number in the version number indicates
patches or minor bug fixes. Finally, the fourth number indicates a build
number or a build date, and it can indicate less significant changes made. Software version numbers are identified in
the About or Help section of software. You can practice identifying your version
number in a web browser. This example illustrates how to view the version
number in the Google Chrome desktop web browser; however, if you are using a different web
browser, you should be able to follow the same or similar steps. To view the browser version: First, select the three dots or three lines
in the top-right corner of your browser. Next, select the menu item “Help.” Then, select “About” to view the version
information. The version of your web browser will display. Are newer versions of software compatible
with older versions? Lack of compatibility between old and new
versions of software is a common problem. You can troubleshoot compatibility issues
by viewing the software version to determine if you are using an outdated version of the
software. Sometimes updating software to a newer version
will resolve compatibility issues. Some software is backwards compatible. If a program or application is backwards compatible,
then the older versions of files, programs, and systems will work properly with newer
versions. In this video, you learned that: Version numbers indicate the history of changes,
updates, and patches to software, Some version numbers follow the semantic numbering
system and have 4 parts separated by a period, Compatibility with old and new versions of
software is a common problem, and you should view the version of the software
you are using to determine software compatibility.
Welcome to Software Testing. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Define the terms functional testing, non-functional
testing, and regression testing, and compare and contrast typical testing levels. Software Testing is the practice of integrating
quality checks throughout the software development cycle. The purpose of testing is to check whether the software matches expected
requirements and ensure error-free software. In order to test software, the team writes
“test cases.” These test cases are written to verify the
functionality of a software application and ensure requirements have been satisfied. Test cases can be written in different stages
of the SDLC and may vary depending on the type of test or the method used to develop
the software, such as Agile or waterfall. A test case contains: steps, inputs, data, and the expected corresponding outputs. Regardless
of the test type or development method, test cases should always be written after requirements
are finalized. Software testing helps evaluate the software
to identify whether or not the software product meets requirements and is error-free. Types of testing can be broadly classified
into three categories: Functional testing, Non-Functional testing, and Regression testing Functional testing usually involves black
box testing which is a method of testing without looking at source code or internal
structure. Functional testing is only concerned with
inputs and corresponding outputs of the system under test, also called
the SUT. It is entirely based on testing functional requirements. Functional testing can be carried out manually
or using automated tools. The goal is to test the functionality of the
application making sure the application is usable and accessible. Functional testing tests the SUT,
to make sure it meets functional requirements. Functional testing makes sure that when
user errors or input edge cases do occur, the software handles those exceptions seamlessly
by displaying appropriate error messages. Non-functional testing includes testing the
application for attributes like performance, security, scalability, and availability. Non-functional testing checks
to see if the SUTs non-functional behavior is performing properly. Non-functional testing should answer questions
like the following: How does the application behave under stress? What happens when many users log in at the
same time? Are the instructions in documents and user
manuals consistent with the application’s behavior? Does the application behave similarly under
different operating systems? How does the application handle disaster recovery? And how secure is the application? Regression testing, also called maintenance
testing, confirms that a recent change to the application, such as a bug fix, does not adversely affect already existing functionality. Regression testing should occur when there
has been a change in requirements or when defects have been fixed. In order to conduct regression testing, all
or some of the test cases should be selected to test against the application. Regression
test case selection and prioritization can be challenging and can depend on several factors. Common reasons for regression test case selection
include cases that: have frequent defects , contain frequently used functionality, contain features with recent changes, or are complex test cases, edge cases, and randomly successful or failed test cases. Now that we have discussed different types
of testing, let’s discuss testing levels. There are four testing levels: unit, integration, system, and acceptance. Each level occurs at a different time in the
SDLC. There are 4 different levels in order to reduce the amount of time spent on testing
by preventing overlap. We will discuss each of these testing levels next. Unit testing refers to tests that verify the
functionality of a specific section of code, usually at the function level. It is performed by the software developer
or engineer during the development phase of the software development life cycle. Unit testing aims to eliminate construction
errors before code is integrated with other modules. Unit testing is intended to increase
the quality of the resulting software as well as the efficiency of the overall development
process. Integration testing seeks to identify errors when two or more
smaller, independent code modules are combined. Integration testing is another type of black-box
testing. Prior to integration testing, smaller,
independent code modules that passed unit testing are incorporated into the larger software
application. After modules are integrated together, then
integration testing can occur. Integration testing exposes bugs that occur
when those smaller units of code interact with each other. Integration testing uncovers deficiencies
in communication with a new module in conjunction with other existing modules, databases, or external hardware. Integration testing uncovers
situations where bugs develop due to differing programming logic between modules, for instance.
Also, sometimes during module development, requirements change, and the module isn’t
fully unit tested. Poor exception handling can cause problems when modules are integrated
together. System testing occurs after integration testing
and is conducted on a complete, integrated system to evaluate the system's compliance with its
specified requirements. It validates the system as a fully completed
software product. System testing is both functional and non-functional. System testing is done in a staging environment,
which should be similar to the production environment. And finally, acceptance testing is formal testing with
respect to user needs, requirements, and business processes. It determines whether a system
satisfies the needs of the users, customers, and other stakeholders. Acceptance testing is
usually done by the customer or the stakeholders during the maintenance stage of the SDLC. In this video you learned that: There are three categories of testing: functional,
non-functional, and regression . Unit testing verifies small, independent chunks
of code. Integration testing looks for errors when
two or more small chunks of code are combined. System testing validates the system as a fully
completed software product and acceptance testing verifies correct implementation
of user requirements and business processes.
Hello and welcome to Software Documentation. After watching this video, you will be able
to: List documentation formats. Compare and contrast product documentation
to process documentation. Describe the categories and types of documentation. And explain the purpose of standard operating
procedures. Software documentation is information about
the software that describes what the product is and how to use it. These can be written, video, or graphical assets associated with a software
product’s development and use. Documentation can be in any of these three
formats. Documentation is an essential aspect of software
engineering applicable across all the phases of SDLC. Software Documentation can be written for
different types of audiences – such as end users, software developers, QA engineers,
system administrators and other stakeholders. Documentation can be divided into two categories,
product and process. Product documentation relates to the product’s
functionality, whereas process documentation describes how to complete a task. Process documentation should provide the requirements
for the quality implementation of a business process. Now, let’s discuss some specific types of
product documentation. There are many types of documentation, and we
will discuss five categories including requirements, design, technical, quality assurance, and user documentation. Requirements documentation is written during
the planning phase of the SDLC and is intended for the development team including the developers,
architects, and QA personnel. Requirements documentation describes the expected
features and functionality of the software system. It includes the software requirements specifications,
system requirement specifications, and user acceptance specifications. Design documentation is written by the software
architects and the development team to explain how the software will be built to meet the
requirements. It consists of both conceptual and technical
design documents. Technical documentation includes comments
written in the code to help other developers read the code to understand its behavior.
It also may include working papers that explain how the code works and documents that record
engineers’ ideas and thoughts during project implementation. Quality assurance documentation includes all
documents that pertain to a testing team’s strategy, progress, and metrics. Types of test documentation include test plans,
test data, test scenarios, test cases, test strategies, and traceability matrices. Traceability
matrices map test cases to their requirements. User documentation is intended for end-users
and explains how to operate the software or help them to install or troubleshoot the system. End-user documentation includes frequently
asked questions, installation and help guides, tutorials, and user manuals. Standard operating procedures, called SOPs,
often accompany process documentation. Process documentation provides an overview
of a process, but SOPs go through much greater detail. The SOP is written documentation that
explains step-by-step how to accomplish a common, yet complex task that is organization
specific. For example, checking in code using a code repository is common knowledge for
a software engineer. However, an organization might have specific
steps to follow for that organization in order to get code merged into the main branch. The SOP documentation explains those steps
in detail. SOPs can be in the form of a flowchart, a hierarchical outline, or step-by-step instructions. Documentation, in any form, must be kept up
to date. Take for instance online user manuals. If a cloud-based application user interface
changes, then the accompanying online documentation must be updated accordingly. Businesses need
to ensure they allot resources for this step. With regards to the software development and
the SDLC, updating documentation happens during the maintenance phase. Ideally, documentation should also be reviewed
periodically to ensure its accuracy. In this video you learned that: Documentation comes in three formats: written,
video, or graphical. Process documentation describes how to complete
a task. Product documentation relates to how a product
functions. The types of product documentation include
requirements, design, technical, QA, and user. And SOPs are written instructions detailing
an organization's specific procedure.
Welcome to “What Is Software Engineering.” After watching this video, you will be able
to define software engineering, list the responsibilities of a software engineer, and compare and contrast
software developers and software engineers. Software engineering is the application of
scientific principles to the design and creation of software. The field uses a systematic approach to collect
and analyze business requirements in order to design, build, and test software applications
to satisfy those business requirements. When computing began in the late 1950s, software
engineering was a relatively undefined discipline, but over time it transformed into a modernized engineering
field. The software engineering field became a discipline
in the 1960s and evolved as new technologies were developed and the approach to software
development became more scientific. Trends in software engineering transformed
from ad hoc programming towards more formal and standardized methods. Initially, the creation of software lacked
a formal development process. As the world widely adopted computers, software
became increasingly integral to more aspects of life. The inefficiencies in the software development
process made it difficult to meet the rapidly increasing demand for computing resources
and complex software. This led to what is known as the “Software
Crisis” which began in the mid-1960s and lasted until the mid-1980s. During this period, software development often
ran over budget, behind schedule, and consisted of unmanageable, buggy code. By the time older software solutions came
to fruition, newer, better, and faster technologies had already been developed, causing software
engineers to have to refactor their code, or completely redesign their system. Often software development solutions that
worked for small software systems did not scale to large, complex projects. Now, Some of these issues still exist today, although
to a much lesser extent due to the consistent application of engineering principles to the
software development process. Computing resources have become more widely
available and standardized methodologies for software development allow for large, complex
solutions that scale. The solution to the “Software Crisis”
involved transforming unorganized coding efforts into an established engineering discipline. The mid 1980s also saw a rise in the growth
of computer-aided software engineering or CASE which also helped to relieve the software
crisis. CASE tools can be divided into six categories:
business analysis and modeling, development tools such as debugging environments, verification
and validation tools, configuration management, metrics and measurement, and project management. The term “software engineer” is often
used interchangeably with software developer but there are subtle differences. Software engineers are also developers, but
the term “software developer” is usually deemed narrower in scope than that of a software
engineer. A software engineer’s knowledge is usually
broader. Software engineers take a systematic, big
picture approach in their thinking to software development whereas developers may have more
creative approaches. Both software engineers and software developers
have specialized knowledge, but software engineers use that knowledge to build entire systems
whereas software developers use their knowledge to write code to implement specific functionality
within a system. Software engineers are often employed on larger
scale projects and they are focused on the broad structure rather than solving an immediate
problem. Software engineers are tasked with designing,
building, and maintaining software systems. Their Responsibilities include writing and testing
code, and consulting with stakeholders such as clients, third party software vendors, security
specialists, and other team members. The adoption of a measured, scientific approach
to software development has influenced the way software is created and designed. Today, the development process is typically
guided by the Software Development Lifecycle or SDLC. The SDLC identifies the steps needed to develop
high-quality software. Later in this module, we will discuss the
SDLC, the traits of high-quality software, and roles common in the field of software
engineering. In this video you learned that: Software engineering is the systematic approach
to design and development of software. Responsibilities of a software engineer include: Designing, building, and maintaining software
systems, writing and testing code, and consulting with stakeholders, third party
vendors, security specialists, and other team members. And finally, software engineers build systems while software
developers implement specific functionalities.
