[MUSIC] Welcome to the overview of Git workflows. After watching this video, you will be
able to describe the steps in a Git workflow and explain the workflow
in real life scenario. Imagine yourself joining a team developing
features for an e-commerce platform. Your task is to add a product
recommendation feature. The team uses git and GitHub for
version control and collaboration. How will you collaborate effectively
with the team using git and GitHub? A clear understanding of git workflows
ensures you can use git effectively for version control and collaboration. The knowledge will help you avoid
issues such as code conflicts and unintentionally overriding
a team member's work. The first step is cloning a repository
that your team has hosted on GitHub. Cloning creates a copy of
the project's code, and its complete version history from the
remote repository on your local computer. The connection established during cloning
enables you to push code changes to the remote repository. You can also pull any changes from the
remote repository to your local repository and update it. You can implement the product
recommendation feature by updating the project files in
your local repository. As a developer, you might try
multiple ways to code the feature. You may not want the changes to affect
the main branch until the code is ready. A good practice is to create
a branch from the main branch, and then work on the newly created branch. A branch in git is an isolated development
space based on the main branch where you can make changes. In this case, add a feature without
interfering with the main code base. After developing the feature, the next
step is to select the changed files and move them to a staging area. The staging area is a temporary storage
space where you collect the selected files before asking git to save
them in the local repository. You can now commit the files
to the newly created branch. Committing files allows you
to record the changes and ensure your new feature
becomes a part of the branch. When you commit files, including a commit
message provides context for you and your team members to
understand the change. For example, include a commit message like implemented
product recommendation feature. The next step is pushing the changes
in the branch to the remote repository. Most often, the code is reviewed by a
maintainer who is responsible for managing the repository before it is merged into
the main branch in the remote repository. To merge the branch,
you create a pull request. It is a request to
the maintainer to review and approve the changes in the branch. After the maintainer
merges the pull request, the changes in the branch will
be reflected in the main branch. Similarly, if you have maintainer access,
you will receive pull requests from your team members and you will review and
approve their requests. You learned about the typical workflow
in a software development project. There may be situations where you
start a project from scratch and intend to collaborate with others. You can initialize a local project
directory as a git repository so that git starts tracking changes
in your project directory. The next step is to select all project
files that you want git to track, move them to a staging area,
and then do an initial commit. After this,
you will create a blank repository and link your local git repository
to the remote repository. Then you will push all project files
from your local repository to the remote repository. Other developers can clone
the remote repository and follow the regular workflow for
updating project files. Let's understand the workflow
better with a use case. A company assigns a team of developers,
testers, and product manager to a new web
application development project. Anne, the lead developer, initializes
a git repository in her working directory. She creates project files,
moves them to the staging area, and does the initial commit. She then pushes the commit to a blank
remote repository she created. All developers clone
the remote repository and start working on it by creating branches. One of the developers,
John, is responsible for implementing a user
authentication feature. He creates a new branch named
User Auth from the main branch. John completes the feature development and
commits to the User Auth branch. After thorough testing, he pushes the branch to the remote
repository and creates a pull request. Anne reviews the pull request and
approves it to merge the changes into the main branch so other developers
can access the changes made by John. Similarly, other developers push
commits to the remote repository for the features they worked on. At this stage,
feature development is complete and the project is ready to be released. Anne creates a release branch named
Release 1.0 from the main branch in the remote repository. The team pulls the changes
from the remote repository so that their local repository is up to date. They perform final testing, bug fixes and documentation updates in
the Release 1.0 branch. After testing, they commit the changes, push the commits to the remote repository,
and create a pull request. Anne reviews and merges the changes
into the main branch and tags the release as Release 1.0. Let's now recap what you learned. In this video, you learned about
the steps in a git workflow. When you join an existing project,
first clone the remote repository. Then create a branch from the main
repository and work on the branch. Add updated files to the staging area and
commit to the branch. Push commits to the remote repository. Create a pull request to merge
the branch into the main branch, which will be reviewed and
approved by the maintainer. When you start a new project,
initialize a local git repository. Then select select the files
you want Git to track, move them to a staging area and
perform an initial commit. Create a blank remote repository and establish a link with
your local repository. Push the changes so other developers
can clone this remote repository and follow the regular workflow for
updating project files. [MUSIC]
Welcome to managing
GitHub projects. In this video, you'll identify the common roles
of version control or Git in the project and list Git commands to communicate
with other developers. You already know that GitHub is a popular platform for version control and
project management. You require managing
your GitHub projects for effective collaboration
and project organization. Multiple roles are involved
in managing a project; a developer, an integrator, and a repository administrator. A developer working as a participant in a group
project needs to learn how to communicate with others
and to use these commands in addition to the ones needed
by a standalone developer. When working with Git, you can use Git commands or desktop tools such
as GitHub Desktop. Git clone is used to create
a copy from upstream, a remote shared repository that the developer
wants to work on. Git pull and git fetch
are used to pull or fetch the repository from origin to keep up to date
with the upstream. Git push is used
to push commits to the shared repository
if you adopt a concurrent versioning system for the repository workflow, and git request, pull creates a summary of changes for
your upstream to pull. An integrator in a group project receives changes made by others, reviews and integrates them, responds to pull requests, and publishes the result
for others to use. Integrators use the
following commands in addition to the ones
needed by participants. Git pull helps you merge with
your trusted lieutenants. Git revert will undo
any botched commits. Git push will help to publish the project from the local
repo to the remote repo. The repository administrator structures how the repository is organized and how users
interact with the repository. They also manage communities, asset types, relationships,
categories and attributes. A repository administrator sets up and maintains access to the
repository for developers. They also configure
the servers needed for accessing the web services
and documentation, define email and index settings, and manage the look and
feel of the application. Repository admins can use
GitHub actions to automate software workflows including
continuous integration and continuous delivery or CICD. Let's recap. In this video, you learned that multiple roles are involved in
managing a project; developer, integrator and
repository administrator. Each role uses
different Git commands to communicate with
collaborators. A developer working in a group project uses
commands like git clone, git pull, git fetch, git push, and git request pull. In addition to the ones needed
by a standalone developer, an integrator in a
group project reviews and integrates changes
made by others. Integrators use
commands like git pull, git revert, and git push, in addition to the ones
needed by participants. The repository administrators structure how the repository is organized and how users
interact with the repository. They also configure
the servers needed for accessing the web services
and documentation, define email and index settings, and manage the look and
feel of the application.
Welcome to cloning
versus forking. Until now, you have delved into the concepts of
cloning and forking, but have you ever paused to think about
their differences? In this video, you will
learn the difference between cloning and forking repositories
and when to use them. You will also describe the
cloning and forking workflow. GitHub allows multiple
developers to collaborate on their
code base in parallel. A project in GitHub.com resides either as a public
or private repository. Each developer working on that project may have
their own copy of the repository on their computer which they refer to
as their local repo, and one that is on GitHub.com which they refer to
as the remote repo. Let's say you have
an existing project named Grand Messaging, and you are looking to create a new or derivative project, Grand Messaging
Plus, which offers additional features and
improvements over the original. There's no need for you to start creating your code base again, you can simply fork the existing
Grand Messaging project, create Grand Messaging Plus, and develop on top of
the existing code base, offering new and
improved features. To fork a public project, you can go to its
GitHub project page and select Fork at
the top of the page. This fork option is available only while using
the web interface. There is no native git
command to create a fork. The repo from which you
create the fork is referred to as the original
upstream repository. Once you fork the
original upstream, the forked copy of the
repo becomes the origin, and developers with
access to the origin can create clones of it
on their local machines. After cloning, you can create branches and easily make
changes to the code base, like adding features,
enhancements, or fixing bugs. Finally, you can add, commit, and push your changes
to the branch and request to merge the branch with the main branch
in the origin. However, it is
important to note that the synchronization
of changes using push and merge can
only be done with repos that the developers
have right access to. But what if you want to
contribute your changes back to the original upstream
that you do not have right access to from
where it was forked? In that case, you can
submit a pull request for your proposed
changes by selecting New pull request from
the Pull requests tab. The maintainers of
the upstream project can review the changes
in the pull request, provide feedback, and merge accordingly unless there are any conflicts to be resolved. Now, let's look at how you can create branches and
synchronize changes. To create a branch, you can use The git branch
command and then make the branch active using
the git checkout command. Once changes are made, save and stage them using
git add and git commit. After the intended
changes are completed, you should set up an
upstream branch for the newly created branch and push the changes
to the new branch, then you raise a request
to the maintainer to merge the changes in the new branch to the main branch
after reviewing it. Let us revisit the
forking workflow. First, you create a fork of an upstream project which
then becomes the origin. The developer can
create clones on the local machines,
make changes, and then use git push to push the updated main branch back to the origin by creating
pull requests. The upstream project
maintainers review the changes and then merge
if there are no conflicts. One thing to note about the git merge command is
that it lets you take independent lines
of development in git branches and integrate
them into a single branch. Now, let's say a new developer
joins your project to upgrade the Grand Messaging
to Grand Messaging Plus. How are you going to
share the remote repo with the new developer to
collaborate on the project? This is where cloning
comes to your rescue. You can clone any public
repo in GitHub or a private repo that
you have access to by going to that repo and
selecting the Code button. You can then get the
entire code base of the remote repo
in various ways. GitHub also gives you
the ability to copy the HTTPS URL and then execute the git
clone URL command from your local machine. After cloning, you can
follow the same process of updating your code base and
merging with the main branch. Let us quickly look at the
entire clone workflow. Cloning comes into the
picture once you have forked your repo and it has
now become the origin. You then use the origin to
create an identical copy of the remote repo using the git clone command that the developer can use
on their computer. Then, the new developer
creates a new branch, makes changes, and saves them using add and
commit operations. After that, they push the new branch to the origin to get their changes reviewed. A reviewer or maintainer uses the git fetch or
git pull command to get the latest copy
of the repo and the git diff command to help identify and compare the
changes in the branch. Once reviewed, they can use git checkout and merge
the branch to the main. Lastly, anyone with
maintainer access can create a pull request to the original
upstream to initiate the changes in the original
repo. Let's recap. In this video, you
learned that if you want to create a derivative
project from another project, as the starting point, you
can choose to fork a project. The repo that you fork from is referred to as the
upstream repo. To contribute your
changes back to the upstream project for which you do not
have right access, you can submit a pull request, commonly referred to as PR. The maintainers of
the upstream project can review the changes
in the pull request, provide feedback, and merge accordingly unless there are any conflicts to be resolved. You can create an
identical copy of the remote repo using
the git clone operation. The remote repo from
which the project is cloned is also referred
to as the origin. To create branches and
synchronize changes, the git commands used are : git branch to create a branch, git checkout to
activate the branch, git add and git commit
to save changes, git push to push the
branch to the remote repo, and git merge to merge the
changes to the main branch.
Music) Welcome to Cloning and Forking GitHub Projects. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Clone and sync repositories. Fork a project to make a base for a new project. Use git commands to communicate with other
developers. GitHub has over existing 100M repositories,
including some very useful projects. Whether you are joining a team or basing your
own project on prior work, some of the most powerful tools are forking and cloning a repository. Cloning generally refers to creating a copy
of a repository on your local machine. Cloned copies can be kept in sync between
the two locations. Forking allows you to modify or extend a project
without affecting the original project. Frequently, this is used to take an existing
project and make it the starting point for your new project. To clone a GitHub repository, navigate to
the repository that you want to clone. Under the repository name, click Code. In the Clone with HTTPS section, click the
clipboard button to copy the URL. To download the source code, you can click
Download zip, but without the version control information. On your local machine, open a “Terminal”
window and change to the directory where you want the clone to be copied. Type “git clone” followed by pasting the
URL that you copied above and then press ENTER to execute the cloning. When you have made your changes and are ready
to sync your code back to GitHub. First, you must run the “git add <files>”
command. This moves the changed files into a staging
area on the GitHub repository. The staging area is an area where commits
can be formatted and reviewed before completing the commit. Next, when you are ready, run “git commit
–m <message>” and this will commit changes in the staging area. When you are ready to move your changes fully
into the GitHub repository. Use the “git push” command. This will push all the committed changes into
the repository. Remote repositories are repositories that
are stored elsewhere – on the internet, on your network, even on your local computer. You can have several of remote repositories,
each of which generally is either read-only or read/write for you. Collaborating with others involves managing
these remote repositories and involves push, pull, and fetch operations to and from them
when you need to share work. Use git push to transfer your changes to the
remote repo. Use git fetch to transfer any changes from
the remote repo to your local repo. It does not merge those changes to the branch
you are working on. You can perform a merge manually if you want. Use git pull to transfer any changes from
the remote repo to your local repo, and merge them to a branch. Developers use the terms upstream and origin
when talking about remote reps. Origin generally refers to your fork and upstream
refers to the original work. These are the norms. You can of course name them anything you like. Forking is used to take a copy of a GitHub
repository and use it as the base for a new project. You can also use forking to submit back changes
into the original repository. This is also used to independently make changes
to a project. In that instance, when you are satisfied with
your changes, submit a pull request to the original project owner. They can decide whether or not to accept your
changes. It is often a legal requirement to keep a
copy of the of the license file. Even if no legal requirement exists, it’s
good practice. Navigate to the repository that you want to
fork. In the top-right corner, click the “Fork”
button. To keep a fork in sync with the original work
from a local clone. First, create a local clone of the project. To configure Git to sync your fork: Open a Terminal and change to the directory
containing the clone. Type “git remote –v” This gives you
the remote repository. Type “git remote add upstream <PASTE>”
with the pasted-in directory that you used in creating your clone. Adding upstream adds the original repository
as a new remote repository labelled upstream. If you type “git remote –v”, you’ll
see the change reflected. Other commands of interest include “git
fetch upstream” to grab upstream branches and “git merge upstream/master” which
merges changes into the master branch. You will also see "git pull upstream" used
to fetch and merge the remote branch in the same step. “Git pull upstream" reduces the number of
steps to sync with a remote branch, but the automatic merges are not always desired. In this video, you learned: GitHub has over existing 100M repositories
that you can use. You can clone a repository to copy it to your
local machine and sync changes back to the original repository. You can fork a repository to use it as the
base for a new project, or to work on a project independently.
[MUSIC] Welcome to the video Demo: Working
with Branches using Git Commands. In this video, you will examine
the functions of various git commands and how to manage git branches using commands. Branches allow you to work on features,
experiments, or fixes independently in a structured and
organized manner. The git branching workflow is
crucial in version control and collaboration when working on
software development projects. The workflow allows the teams to work
on different features, bug fixes, or experiment in isolation without
disrupting one another's code. Let us now focus on how to efficiently use
git commands to facilitate the branching workflow process. To do so, first,
let us clone the repository so that you can have a copy of that
repository on your local machine. Navigate to the GitHub repository,
then click Code and copy the URL under the HTTPS section in the terminal window
and change to the target directory. When you want to create
a copy of the repository, run the git clone command
with the repository URL. Once you have the copy,
you can create branches, make changes, and sync those changes.
Changed to the directory that was cloned Now let us focus on
the git branch command. Run the git branch command, followed by
the desired branch name to create a new branch so that you can work on it
without impacting the main code. Let's say that to create a branch
named PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS, you will execute git branch
PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS. The new branch created will be a copy
of the branch you are currently on. Note that you will not be taken to
the newly created branch automatically. To switch to branch
PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS, use the git checkout
PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS command. Now that you are on branch
PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS, you can make your changes. While on
the PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS branch, let's say you add a header such as
welcome to KIV to your index.html file. Next, run the git status command to check
the status of your working directory. This will highlight the modifications
made to your index.html file. To stage the changes in your
PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS branch, execute the git add index.html command. This command will specify that the changes
are now ready to be committed. You can finally run the git commit
-m command with the message Added header to save your changes. The -m in the git commit command
adds a message to your changes. Now the changes in the index.html
file are part of your PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS branch's history. Let us now focus on merging
the PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS branch with the main branch.
To do so, firstly, switch back to the main branch by
running the git checkout main command. By doing so, you are no longer on
the PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS branch. Now run the git merge
PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS command. This command will integrate your changes
from the PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS branch into the main branch. The header change from
PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS is now incorporated into the index.html
file located in the main branch. To make these changes accessible
in your remote repository, use the git push -u origin main command. This command will push the main branch,
including the changes merged from the PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS branch,
to your remote repository. Finally, run the git status command to
ensure the changes have been made and the branch is up to date. That's it. You have come to the end of this video. In this video, you learned how to effectively work
with branches using git commands. You started by listing branches
with the git branch command, then created the PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS
branch using the git branch PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS command. Then you switched to the new branch using git checkout PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS
command, made and staged changes using git status, git
add index.html, git commit -m commands. And finally, merged PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS
with the main branch using git checkout main and
git merge PATCH-1-ADDING-HEADERS. You concluded this exercise by
pushing the main branch to your remote repository using
git push -u origin main. [MUSIC]
Welcome to overview
of Git commands. In this video, you will examine some basic Git commands and the functions and applications
of basic Git commands. Git commands are used for
various purposes such as tracking and saving changes and sharing your
changes with others. Typically, many of
these activities are performed through
the web interface. Command-line interface or CLI is another option to
perform these activities. Let's consider a
scenario to understand some general command-line
commands such as mkdir, cd that can help in smooth
functioning of the project. We will also discuss
some basic Git commands such as git init, git add, git commit, git log, git branch, git checkout, git
merge, and git status. Consider you are a part of a web developer who
wants the addition of a new HTML file to enhance the features of
his web application. In this scenario, you wish to experiment with your codes without disturbing
the main code. Let's explore the steps. Let's start by creating
a new directory named MyRepository by using
the mkdir command. The mkdir command stands
for make directory. Once you have created
the directory, navigate to the directory
using cd MyRepository command. This command is used to navigate into a specific directory. Now, let us now create
a new repository in this directory using
the git init command. It sets up the necessary
files and data structure for Git to start managing your
project's version control. You can create a new HTML file that has the necessary content. Let's say you create
index.html file. Now, add this newly
created file to the staging area using
git add command. This command moves changes from the working directory
to the staging area. Now, you decide to commit the addition of the new
HTML file with a message. For this, you use the git
commit -m command that takes your stage snapshot
of changes and saves them to the project
with a descriptive message. This message explains the
purpose of the git commit. In this case, created a new HTML file can be
your commit message. If you wish to review
the commit history to confirm the
commit is recorded, run the git log command. It enables you to browse previous changes
made to a project. Here, your commit history will reflect created a new HTML file. Now, what if you want to
experiment with your code but you do not want to
disrupt the current flow? Let's learn to create a branch
using git branch command. To work in the isolation, you can use git branch
command that lists, creates, renames, and even deletes branches within
a Git repository. Say you want to create a
branch called code_list. For this, you may use
the git branch command. To switch to the newly created branch to
start the development, use the git checkout command. The git checkout command lets you switch between the
existing branches. You can now make the
changes to the index.html file in the code_list branch. Once done, run the
git add changes to add the newly made changes in your file to
the staging area. As stated earlier, let's now commit the new
changes made in the code_list branch with
a descript message such as updated index.html
file in branch. Let's now browse
the commit log in the code_list branch using
the git log command. Your output will
now display updated index.html file in branch. To see the status
of all the changes you made in your Git
working directory, let's run the git
status command. This command Git provides
information about the state of your files in
relation to the repository. Finally, git merge lets
you put everything back together again and merge the feature branch
with the main branch. In this example, we will use git checkout command to navigate to the
main branch first. Then use the git merge
followed by the branch name, which in this case
is the code_list. Let's now recap
what you learned. In this video, you learned about the CLI commands that you can use to perform
various activities. The commands are mkdir to
create a new directory, cd to navigate to a
specific directory, git init to initiate
a Git repository, git add to move the changes from the working directory
to the staging area, git commit to commit the
changes to the project, git log to browse the
previous changes, git branch to create
a new branch, git checkout to switch between
the existing branches, git merge to update the branches
with the master branch, and git status to see the status of your
working directory.