Welcome to managing
GitHub projects. In this video, you'll identify the common roles
of version control or Git in the project and list Git commands to communicate
with other developers. You already know that GitHub is a popular platform for version control and
project management. You require managing
your GitHub projects for effective collaboration
and project organization. Multiple roles are involved
in managing a project; a developer, an integrator, and a repository administrator. A developer working as a participant in a group
project needs to learn how to communicate with others
and to use these commands in addition to the ones needed
by a standalone developer. When working with Git, you can use Git commands or desktop tools such
as GitHub Desktop. Git clone is used to create
a copy from upstream, a remote shared repository that the developer
wants to work on. Git pull and git fetch
are used to pull or fetch the repository from origin to keep up to date
with the upstream. Git push is used
to push commits to the shared repository
if you adopt a concurrent versioning system for the repository workflow, and git request, pull creates a summary of changes for
your upstream to pull. An integrator in a group project receives changes made by others, reviews and integrates them, responds to pull requests, and publishes the result
for others to use. Integrators use the
following commands in addition to the ones
needed by participants. Git pull helps you merge with
your trusted lieutenants. Git revert will undo
any botched commits. Git push will help to publish the project from the local
repo to the remote repo. The repository administrator structures how the repository is organized and how users
interact with the repository. They also manage communities, asset types, relationships,
categories and attributes. A repository administrator sets up and maintains access to the
repository for developers. They also configure
the servers needed for accessing the web services
and documentation, define email and index settings, and manage the look and
feel of the application. Repository admins can use
GitHub actions to automate software workflows including
continuous integration and continuous delivery or CICD. Let's recap. In this video, you learned that multiple roles are involved in
managing a project; developer, integrator and
repository administrator. Each role uses
different Git commands to communicate with
collaborators. A developer working in a group project uses
commands like git clone, git pull, git fetch, git push, and git request pull. In addition to the ones needed
by a standalone developer, an integrator in a
group project reviews and integrates changes
made by others. Integrators use
commands like git pull, git revert, and git push, in addition to the ones
needed by participants. The repository administrators structure how the repository is organized and how users
interact with the repository. They also configure
the servers needed for accessing the web services
and documentation, define email and index settings, and manage the look and
feel of the application.