(Music) Welcome to Cloning and Forking GitHub Projects. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Clone and sync repositories. Fork a project to make a base for a new project. Use git commands to communicate with other
developers. GitHub has over existing 100M repositories,
including some very useful projects. Whether you are joining a team or basing your
own project on prior work, some of the most powerful tools are forking and cloning a repository. Cloning generally refers to creating a copy
of a repository on your local machine. Cloned copies can be kept in sync between
the two locations. Forking allows you to modify or extend a project
without affecting the original project. Frequently, this is used to take an existing
project and make it the starting point for your new project. To clone a GitHub repository, navigate to
the repository that you want to clone. Under the repository name, click Code. In the Clone with HTTPS section, click the
clipboard button to copy the URL. To download the source code, you can click
Download zip, but without the version control information. On your local machine, open a “Terminal”
window and change to the directory where you want the clone to be copied. Type “git clone” followed by pasting the
URL that you copied above and then press ENTER to execute the cloning. When you have made your changes and are ready
to sync your code back to GitHub. First, you must run the “git add <files>”
command. This moves the changed files into a staging
area on the GitHub repository. The staging area is an area where commits
can be formatted and reviewed before completing the commit. Next, when you are ready, run “git commit
–m <message>” and this will commit changes in the staging area. When you are ready to move your changes fully
into the GitHub repository. Use the “git push” command. This will push all the committed changes into
the repository. Remote repositories are repositories that
are stored elsewhere – on the internet, on your network, even on your local computer. You can have several of remote repositories,
each of which generally is either read-only or read/write for you. Collaborating with others involves managing
these remote repositories and involves push, pull, and fetch operations to and from them
when you need to share work. Use git push to transfer your changes to the
remote repo. Use git fetch to transfer any changes from
the remote repo to your local repo. It does not merge those changes to the branch
you are working on. You can perform a merge manually if you want. Use git pull to transfer any changes from
the remote repo to your local repo, and merge them to a branch. Developers use the terms upstream and origin
when talking about remote reps. Origin generally refers to your fork and upstream
refers to the original work. These are the norms. You can of course name them anything you like. Forking is used to take a copy of a GitHub
repository and use it as the base for a new project. You can also use forking to submit back changes
into the original repository. This is also used to independently make changes
to a project. In that instance, when you are satisfied with
your changes, submit a pull request to the original project owner. They can decide whether or not to accept your
changes. It is often a legal requirement to keep a
copy of the of the license file. Even if no legal requirement exists, it’s
good practice. Navigate to the repository that you want to
fork. In the top-right corner, click the “Fork”
button. To keep a fork in sync with the original work
from a local clone. First, create a local clone of the project. To configure Git to sync your fork: Open a Terminal and change to the directory
containing the clone. Type “git remote –v” This gives you
the remote repository. Type “git remote add upstream <PASTE>”
with the pasted-in directory that you used in creating your clone. Adding upstream adds the original repository
as a new remote repository labelled upstream. If you type “git remote –v”, you’ll
see the change reflected. Other commands of interest include “git
fetch upstream” to grab upstream branches and “git merge upstream/master” which
merges changes into the master branch. You will also see "git pull upstream" used
to fetch and merge the remote branch in the same step. “Git pull upstream" reduces the number of
steps to sync with a remote branch, but the automatic merges are not always desired. In this video, you learned: GitHub has over existing 100M repositories
that you can use. You can clone a repository to copy it to your
local machine and sync changes back to the original repository. You can fork a repository to use it as the
base for a new project, or to work on a project independently.