Welcome to overview
of Git commands. In this video, you will examine some basic Git commands and the functions and applications
of basic Git commands. Git commands are used for
various purposes such as tracking and saving changes and sharing your
changes with others. Typically, many of
these activities are performed through
the web interface. Command-line interface or CLI is another option to
perform these activities. Let's consider a
scenario to understand some general command-line
commands such as mkdir, cd that can help in smooth
functioning of the project. We will also discuss
some basic Git commands such as git init, git add, git commit, git log, git branch, git checkout, git
merge, and git status. Consider you are a part of a web developer who
wants the addition of a new HTML file to enhance the features of
his web application. In this scenario, you wish to experiment with your codes without disturbing
the main code. Let's explore the steps. Let's start by creating
a new directory named MyRepository by using
the mkdir command. The mkdir command stands
for make directory. Once you have created
the directory, navigate to the directory
using cd MyRepository command. This command is used to navigate into a specific directory. Now, let us now create
a new repository in this directory using
the git init command. It sets up the necessary
files and data structure for Git to start managing your
project's version control. You can create a new HTML file that has the necessary content. Let's say you create
index.html file. Now, add this newly
created file to the staging area using
git add command. This command moves changes from the working directory
to the staging area. Now, you decide to commit the addition of the new
HTML file with a message. For this, you use the git
commit -m command that takes your stage snapshot
of changes and saves them to the project
with a descriptive message. This message explains the
purpose of the git commit. In this case, created a new HTML file can be
your commit message. If you wish to review
the commit history to confirm the
commit is recorded, run the git log command. It enables you to browse previous changes
made to a project. Here, your commit history will reflect created a new HTML file. Now, what if you want to
experiment with your code but you do not want to
disrupt the current flow? Let's learn to create a branch
using git branch command. To work in the isolation, you can use git branch
command that lists, creates, renames, and even deletes branches within
a Git repository. Say you want to create a
branch called code_list. For this, you may use
the git branch command. To switch to the newly created branch to
start the development, use the git checkout command. The git checkout command lets you switch between the
existing branches. You can now make the
changes to the index.html file in the code_list branch. Once done, run the
git add changes to add the newly made changes in your file to
the staging area. As stated earlier, let's now commit the new
changes made in the code_list branch with
a descript message such as updated index.html
file in branch. Let's now browse
the commit log in the code_list branch using
the git log command. Your output will
now display updated index.html file in branch. To see the status
of all the changes you made in your Git
working directory, let's run the git
status command. This command Git provides
information about the state of your files in
relation to the repository. Finally, git merge lets
you put everything back together again and merge the feature branch
with the main branch. In this example, we will use git checkout command to navigate to the
main branch first. Then use the git merge
followed by the branch name, which in this case
is the code_list. Let's now recap
what you learned. In this video, you learned about the CLI commands that you can use to perform
various activities. The commands are mkdir to
create a new directory, cd to navigate to a
specific directory, git init to initiate
a Git repository, git add to move the changes from the working directory
to the staging area, git commit to commit the
changes to the project, git log to browse the
previous changes, git branch to create
a new branch, git checkout to switch between
the existing branches, git merge to update the branches
with the master branch, and git status to see the status of your
working directory.