Welcome to ECMAScript function syntax and return statement. After watching this video, you will be able to describe
ECMAScript and its specifications. Define the arrow function
and identify its categories, and explore the return
statement along with examples. ECMAScript, often
abbreviated as ES, is a standardized scripting
language specification that serves as the foundation for several scripting languages. JavaScript is the most well known and widely
used implementation. It defines the core features and functionality that a
scripting language should provide to ensure
consistent behavior across different platforms
and environments. The ECMAScript specification
is maintained by ECMA International, a
standards organization. The ECMAScript specification
provides rules, guidelines, and requirements for
scripting languages, including syntax, data types, control structures, and
object manipulation. It ensures that scripts written in different
implementations, such as JavaScript in
web browsers no.js and others can be interoperable and produce
consistent results. Let's now explore
the arrow functions. Arrow functions introduced
in ECMAScript 6, referred to as ES6, offer a concise way to write
functions in JavaScript. They provide a more compact
and readable syntax for creating functions compared to traditional function
expressions. Arrow functions are especially useful for simple
one liner functions. Here's an overview
of arrow functions. Arrow functions have a more
compact and readable syntax. They use a fat arrow to
define the function, which is why they're commonly referred to as arrow functions. Arrow functions do not
require the function keyword. This makes the code cleaner
and easier to write. Arrow functions can also be
categorized in two ways, parameterized and non
parameterized functions. Let's learn about
each in more detail. A parameterized
arrow function takes one or more parameters and performs an operation
based on those parameters. In this example, the
arrow function "add" takes two parameters, A and B, and returns their sum. A non parameterized arrow
function doesn't take any parameters and
typically performs a task without relying on
external input values. In this example, the
arrow function greet doesn't take any parameters, but simply logs a greeting
message to the console. However, it's
important to note that arrow functions are not
a complete replacement for traditional functions. Traditional functions
are still necessary in cases where you require
named function expressions. The choice between
arrow functions and traditional functions depends on the context and
requirements of your code. Let's now explore the
return statement. In JavaScript functions, the return statement
is used to value that a function should produce as its result when it's called. It's essential for controlling
the output of functions and is crucial for making functions reusable
and versatile. Here's an overview of what
return statements do, why they're important,
and how they work. The purpose of using return
statements is as follows. The return statement is used to produce an output
value from a function. This output can be a
specific data value, a calculated result, or
even another function. It serves as an exit
point for a function. Once a return statement
is encountered, the function terminates and the control flow is handed back to the code that
called the function. Return enables functions
that can be used in various contexts because
they provide results that can be captured and used by other parts
of your code. Let's now look at the importance
of return statements. Without return, functions would not be able to produce
meaningful values. They would only perform actions, but not yield results. Return allows functions
to process data, perform calculations, and provide results that are
needed for various tasks. It's a fundamental concept in creating modular, reusable code. Functions encapsulate specific actions
and return results, making your code more
organized and maintainable. Now let's explore how a
return statement works. A return statement
typically appears inside the function body and specifies the value that
the function should return. When the function is called, it executes its code and
evaluates the return statement. The function then
immediately exits and the specified value is returned to the code that
called the function. You can capture
the returned value by assigning the
function call to a variable or using it
directly in other expressions. Here's a simple example
of a function that uses a return statement to calculate
the sum of two numbers. In this example, the
return statement within the add
function allows us to capture the sum of A and B when we call the function and use it in other parts of our code. Let's look at another example using a different output method. Here you have an HTML file that contains the
following code. You also have a
separate file named returndemo.js with the
following JavaScript code. In this example, you
have an HTML file with an empty paragraph element P tagged with the
ID functiondata1. This paragraph will display
the result of a function. To incorporate JavaScript code from an external file named returndemo.js you
use the script tags SRC attribute in your HTML. Within returndemo.js
there's a function called add takes two parameters, A and B, and returns their sum. After defining the add function, JavaScript locates
the HTML element with the ID functiondata1 using document dot get
element by ID functiondata1. The inner HTML property of
this HTML element is set to the result of calling the add function with
the Arguments 3 and 4. As a result, the sum (which is 7)
is displayed within the functiondata1 paragraph
in your HTML document. In this video, you learn
that ECMAScript is a standardized scripting language specification
that serves as the foundation for
scripting languages like JavaScript, it defines core language
features and guidelines for consistent behavior across
different environments. ES enables interoperability and consistent results in
various implementations. Arrow functions
introduced in ES6, provide a concise way to
write JavaScript functions, especially for simple tasks. Return statements determine
the value of function produces and serve
as exit points for functions and
return statements are used for data output, data processing, and
code modularity.Welcome to Function Closure
and Function Hoisting. After watching this video, you will be able to define function closure and
identify practical examples, explain the concept
of function hoisting, and differentiate between function closure and
function hoisting. In Javascript, a function
closure is a function that retains access to variables from its enclosing
function scope. Even after the
enclosing function has finished executing, closures allow you to
create private variables, implement data hiding, and maintain state
between function calls. Here's an example of
a function closure. In this example, inner function is a closure because it can access the outer var variable from its containing function, outer function, even after outer function has
finished executing. Now, let's explore why using function
closure is important. Closures allow you
to encapsulate data within a function scope. Creating a private
environment for variables. This is crucial for building modular and maintainable code. As it helps prevent
unintended interference or modification of variables
from outside the function. By using closures, you
can hide certain data and expose only the
necessary parts of your code's functionality. This is fundamental for creating clean and secure application
programming interface, or API's libraries and modules. Closures enable
functions to remember and maintain state
between function calls. This is valuable for tasks
like implementing counters, timers, or managing
application state in event driven programming. In this example,
the greet function takes a name parameter, and returns an inner
function, sayHello. The greeting variable is enclosed within the
scope of sayHello. Thanks to the closure, you can create
multiple greetings by calling greet with
different names, and each greeting retains
its specific name. When you invoke greet
John and greet Alice, they still remember their
respective name values, resulting in
different greetings. Let's now learn about
function hoisting. Function hoisting,
is a behavior in Javascript where
function declarations are moved to the top of
their containing scope during the compilation phase, allowing you to use a function before it's actually
declared in the code. This behavior only applies to function declarations,
not function expressions. Here's an example of
function hoisting. In this example, the
sayHello function is called before it's declared. But it works because function
declarations are hoisted to the top of their
containing scope during the compilation phase. It's important to note
that function expressions, where a function is
assigned to a variable, do not exhibit
hoisting behavior. For example, in the
above code, greet is a function expression
and is not hoisted. So calling it before the assignment will
result in an error. Let's now learn the importance
of function hoisting. Function hoisting
can make code more readable and self explanatory, by allowing you to use functions before they
are defined in the code. This can improve the
logical flow of your code, and make it easier
to understand. Hoisted functions can be defined at any point within
their containing scope, regardless of the order
in which they are called. This flexibility can be
helpful when structuring your code and organizing
related functions. Function hoisting is crucial
for recursive functions, as it allows the function to call itself within
its own definition. You can conditionally
execute functions based on certain criteria without having to define them in
a specific order. The main difference between function closure and
function hoisting, is that function closures
allow functions to maintain access to variables from
their containing scope. While function hoisting
is a behavior where function declarations
are moved to the top of their containing scope
during compilation, enabling functions
to be called before their actual declaration
in the code. However, it's important to use function hoisting
judiciously, and understand its behavior, as it may lead to
unexpected results, if not used carefully. In contrast, function closures
are a fundamental concept for creating isolated modular
and maintainable code, and are widely used in many
programming scenarios, including creating
private variables, event handling, and
maintaining state. Function closures, are essential
for data encapsulation, information hiding,
and state management. While function hoisting, is valuable for code
organization, order independence, and recursive functions, both concepts contribute to the power and flexibility
of Javascript. In this video, you learned that function closures and
Javascript retain access to variables from
their containing scope, even after the
containing function has finished executing. Closures enable
private variables, data hiding and state maintenance
between function calls. Function hosting and
JavaScript moves function declarations
to the top of their containing scope
during compilation, allowing functions to be used
before they're declared. And function hosting
improves code readability, order independence, and enables recursion and conditional
execution of functions.Welcome to Events in Javascript. After watching this video, you will be able to describe
events in Javascript, recognize some common
Javascript event types, and explain how to attach event handlers to HTML
elements using Javascript. In Javascript, events
are crucial for creating interactive and
dynamic web applications, these are actions or
occurrences in the browser, such as user interactions, page loading, or mouse
movements over elements. Some of the common events
in Javascript are click, mouse over, keydown, and change. Let us explore these events and understand how to handle
them on web pages. The click event
is triggered when a user clicks an
element like a button. This example demonstrates how to handle the click event by changing the content
of a paragraph when a user clicks a button. This is an HTML document containing a button and
a paragraph element. The Javascript
code at the end of the document first
retrieves references to these elements using
document.getElementById and stores them in the
button and output variables. Next, attach an event handler to the button element using
the onclick property. The event handler, an
anonymous function, specifies what should happen when
clicking the button. In this case, it changes
the paragraph's content, identified by the output
variable, to "Button clicked!" The mouseover event is triggered when the mouse cursor
enters an element. In this example, you handle
the mouseover event to display a message when the
mouse moves over a div. The HTML document contains a
div and a paragraph element. The Javascript code starts by selecting these elements with getElementById, just like
in the previous example. You can then attach
an event handler to the div element using the
onmouseover property. The event handler, defined as an anonymous function, specifies that when the mouse
moves over the div, the content of the
paragraph identified by the output variable should
change to "Mouse over the div!" The keydown event
is triggered when you press down a key
on the keyboard. This example demonstrates
handling the keydown event by displaying the pressed key
when typing in an input field. This HTML document contains an input field and a
paragraph element. Javascript is used to select these elements with
document.getElementByID. An event handler for the
keydown event is attached to the input field using
the onkeydown property. This event handler
is defined to accept an event parameter which contains information about
the key that was pressed. It retrieves the
pressed key using the event key and display
it in the paragraph. As you type into
the input field, an event handler listens
for keydown events and dynamically updates the paragraph with
the key you pressed. The change event is
triggered when the value of an input
element changes. Typically, you can
use it to form elements like text
fields or drop-downs. This example handles
the change event to display a message when
the input value changes. You have an input field and a paragraph element in
this HTML document. Javascript selects
these elements with document.getElementByID. The event handler for the
change event is attached to the input field using
the onchange property. When the input value changes, the event handler triggers and updates the paragraphs content with value changed to followed by the new
value of the input. If you write "Hello",
the paragraph will display "Value
changed to: Hello." As you edit the input field by typing or
deleting characters, the event handler detects
the change event and modifies the paragraph to
show the updated value. For instance, if you change
the input from Hello to Hi, the paragraph will display
"Value changed to: Hi." These examples illustrate
different types of events and how you can use Javascript to capture and respond to those events
in your web pages. Event handling is
crucial for creating interactive and user-friendly
web Applications. In this video, you learn that
events in Javascript are fundamental for creating interactive and dynamic
web applications, events represent actions or
occurrences in the browser, including user
interactions, page loading, and mouse movements
over elements. Click event is
triggered when a user clicks on an element
like a button, mouse over event
is triggered when the mouse cursor enters
an element like a div, keydown event is triggered by pressing down on a
key on the keyboard, and change event is triggered when the value of an
input element changes.Welcome to introduction to functions and types
of functions. After watching this video, you will be able to define the concepts of
functions in JavaScript, differentiate between non parameterized and
parameterized functions, and identify the
two main ways of defining functions and the
various types of functions. In JavaScript, a function
is a reusable block of code that can be defined and executed as many
times as needed. Functions are a fundamental part of the language and are used to encapsulate and organize code into manageable, reusable units. They are essential for building complex applications as they help improve code structure, readability, and
maintainability. Let's delve into more details
by introducing functions in JavaScript The first step
is declaring a function. You can declare a function using the function keyword
followed by a name, enclosed parentheses, and the functions code
enclosed in curly braces. Here's a basic example. After declaring a function, you can call it by using its name, followed
by parentheses. When you call a function, it executes the code
within its block. In JavaScript, functions can be categorized into two main types based on their parameters, inputs, non-parameterized
functions and parameterized functions. Let's explore each in detail. Non-parameterized
functions do not require any parameters
to operate. They can perform
their tasks without receiving any specific
input values. Non-parameterized functions
are often used for tasks that rely solely on their internal
logic or external factors. Parameterized functions except
one or more parameters, also called arguments that provide input data for the
function to work with. You define these parameters in the function's declaration, and when you call the function, you pass specific values
for those parameters. Both parameterized and
non-parameterized functions have their uses in JavaScript, depending on the specific
requirements of your code. Parameterized functions
are versatile because they can adapt to
different input values, making them more flexible. While non parameterized
functions are simpler and more suitable for tasks that don't need external data. Now let's learn about
parameters and arguments. Parameters are
variables you define in the function declaration
to accept input values. Arguments are the
actual values you pass to a function
when calling it. In the previous example, A and B are parameters, and when we call add 3, 4 by passing values, these values are the arguments that get passed to the function. There are two ways of writing
a function in JavaScript, function declaration,
function expression. Let's explore each
in more detail. Function declaration is the traditional way
to define a function. It is similar to how we define a function in other
programming languages. We start by declaring it
using the keyword function, then we write the function
name and the parameters. Function expression
is another way to define a function
in JavaScript. Here we define a function using a variable and store the
returned value in that variable. Finally, let's explore
the various types of functions in JavaScript. They are, named function, immediately invoked
function expression, IIFE, arrow function
and anonymous function. Let's learn about
each in detail. Named functions
have specific names that can be called
by their names. They are typically
declared using the function keyword and can be defined at any
point in your code. In the given example, the
name of the function is add. Named function expressions
are beneficial for debugging because they display the function's name
in the call stack, aiding and identifying and
tracking bugs in your code. Immediately invoked function
expression, or IIFE, is a function in
JavaScript that's defined and executed
immediately after its creation. It's often employed
to encapsulate variables and code
within a private scope, helping to prevent global
scope contamination and variable conflicts. The arrow function is
a more concise way to write functions
introduced in ES6. They are often used for
short, simple functions. Anonymous functions
are without a name. These are often
used as arguments for other functions or
assigned to variables. For example, you can create anonymous functions using
the arrow function syntax. In this video, you
learned that functions are code blocks that enhance code organization
and readability. JavaScript functions
enhance code structure and maintainability for
complex applications. Functions are defined with
a function keyword, a name, parameters, and code
in curly braces, and can be invoked using
the function name. There are two categories
of functions, non-parameterized
functions that operate without specific input, and parameterized
functions that accept input parameters defined in
the functions declaration. There are two ways
to write functions. Function declaration is
the traditional way, and function expression
uses variables. The types of functions
include named function, immediately invoked
function expression, IIFE, arrow function,
and anonymous function.Welcome to Looping
and Iteration. After watching this video, you will be able to
define looping in JavaScript and
differentiate between for, while, and do while loops. Looping and iterations
in JavaScript are techniques that allow you to execute a block of
code repeatedly. They are used to perform
repetitive tasks, traverse data structures
like arrays and objects, and handle various
scenarios in your code. Loops in JavaScript are
essential for automating repetitive tasks and processing large sets of data efficiently. They allow you to
iterate through arrays, perform actions on each element, and control the flow of
your code dynamically. Loops are fundamental
for building dynamic and interactive
web applications. JavaScript provides
several looping constructs and methods for this purpose, such as, for loop, while loop, do while loop. Let's explore each
in more detail. A for loop is a
control structure in JavaScript that allows you to execute a block of code repeatedly for a specified
number of times, or until a particular
condition is met. It consists of three parts, initialization,
condition, and update. Initialization,
this part is where you initialize a loop
control variable, typically with an initial value. Condition, this is a Boolean expression that is evaluated before each iteration. If the condition is true, the loop continues,
otherwise it terminates. Update, this part is responsible for changing the loop control
variable in each iteration, often incrementing or
decrementing its value. Here's an example
of a simple for loop that prints
numbers from 1-5. In this example, initialization, let i=1 initializes the loop
control variable i to1. Condition i less than equal 5 checks whether i is
less than or equal to 5. Update, i++ increments i
by 1 after each iteration. The loop starts with i=1
and for each iteration, it prints the value of i
and increments i by 1. When i becomes greater than 5, the condition becomes false
and the loop terminates. The answer to the
example for loop is a sequence of numbers from 1-5, each printed on a new line. A while loop is a control
structure in JavaScript that allows you to execute
a block of code repeatedly. As long as the specified
condition is true, it continually evaluates the condition before
each iteration. Here's the basic syntax
of a while loop. The condition is evaluated
before each iteration. If the condition is true, the code block is executed. If the condition is false,
the loop terminates. Here's an example of a while
loop that calculates and prints the Fibonacci sequence
until a specified limit. In this example, we start
with the limit set to 50, which represents the upper limit for the Fibonacci sequence. The loop continues as long as a is less than or
equal to the limit. Inside the loop, we
calculate the next number in the Fibonacci sequence by adding the previous two numbers, a and b, and store it in temp. Then we update a with the value of b and b
with the value of temp. The output of this loop will
be the Fibonacci sequence up to and including numbers
less than or equal to 50. The loop continues until
the next Fibonacci number exceeds the specified
limit, 50 in this case. This example demonstrates
how a while loop can be used to generate a sequence of numbers based on a condition. A do while loop in JavaScript is a control
structure that allows you to execute a block of code repeatedly as long as a
specified condition is true. Unlike the for or while loops, a do while loop guarantees that the code block will execute at least once, even if the condition
is initially false. The structure of a do
while loop is as follows. The code block is
executed first, then the condition is checked. If the condition is true, the loop continues and the
code block is executed again. If the condition is false,
the loop terminates. Here's an example of
a do while loop that simulates rolling a dice
until a six is rolled. In this example, the loop starts by declaring
a variable roll. The code block within
the loop generates increment numbers
from one and six, simulating a dice roll
and prints the result. We start with roll=1. The loop will execute
the code block, print the current value of roll, and then increment roll by one. If roll reaches seven, it is going to come out
of the loop because a standard dice only
has six phases. The loop continues until
roll is equal to six. Here's an example of
the possible output. In this example, the
loop rolled seven, which caused the loop to exit. Now, let's look at the difference between the
three JavaScript loops. For loops are used when you know the exact number of
iterations while, while and do while
loops are used when the number of iterations
is condition dependent. For loops have an explicit initialization step
within the loop header, while while and do
while loops require you to initialize the loop control variable
before the loop. Do while loops guarantee that their body is executed
at least once, while for and while
loops may not execute the body at all if the initial
condition is false. The choice of loop depends on the specific use case and
control flow in your code. Use for loops for
precise control, while loops for condition
dependent repetition, and do while loops when you need to ensure at least
one execution. In this video, you
learn that looping simplifies repetitive tasks and data handling in JavaScript, a vital aspect of dynamic
web applications. For loop executes tasks, a specific number of times
or until a condition is met. While loop repeats tasks
while a condition is true, evaluating it before
each iteration. Do while loop ensures at least one task execution
while a condition is true, and you should select the appropriate loop based on your specific needs
and control flow.Welcome to control flow and
conditional statements. After watching this video, you will be able to define control flow and
conditional statements in JavaScript and assess and compare various
conditional statements. Control flow and
conditional statements are fundamental in
directing the flow of a JavaScript program. Control flow refers
to the order in which statements are executed
in a JavaScript program. While conditional statements, often referred to as
decision making statements, are used to manage this flow based on specified conditions. Some of the conditional
statements in JavaScript are if statement, else if statement, else statement, nested
if else statement, switch statement, and
ternary operator. Let's explore each
in more detail. The if statement
is used to execute a block of code if a
specified condition is true, if the condition is false, the code block is skipped. In this example,
the code checks if the age variable is greater
than or equal to 18. If the condition is true, it prints you are an adult, otherwise, it prints
you are a minor. The else if statement
allows you to test multiple conditions
sequentially, especially when you have more
than two possible outcomes. For instance, if you
have an HTML file with a p tag and this p tag has
an ID called time message, then you can include
the messages in the p tag using the given
code in a separate JS file. Here, the code checks
the value of time and prints a different
greeting based on the time of day
on your browser. The else statement is used to specify a block of code to be executed if the condition in
the if statement is false. In this example,
if it's raining, isRaining is true, it advises you to
bring an umbrella. Otherwise, it tells you that
there's no need for one. Nested if else statements are a common programming
construct in JavaScript and many other
programming languages. They allow you to test multiple
conditions and execute different blocks of code based on the results
of those conditions. Here, the code provides
different messages based on the combination of
temperature and rainfall, considering whether it's hot, cold, rainy, or sunny. The switch statement allows you to compare a value against multiple possible
case values and execute code based on
the first matching case. In this example, the
code evaluates the value of day and prints a message
based on the day of the week. The ternary operator is
a concise way to write conditional statements
such as if else condition. The ternary operator checks if the age is greater
than or equal to 18. If it is, it sets, can vote to yes, otherwise it sets it to no. Control flow and
conditional statements are crucial for building responsive
JavaScript applications. They enable your code to make decisions, execute
different actions, and provide a
personalized experience to users based on
specific conditions, making your programs more
dynamic and interactive. In this video, you learn
that control flow in JavaScript manages execution order using
conditional statements. The if statement executes code when a specified
condition is true, otherwise the code
block is skipped. Else if sequentially tests multiple conditions
for situations with more than two possible outcomes enabling various actions
based on each condition. Else specifies code to run when the if statements
condition is false, providing an alternative action. Nested if else statements assess multiple conditions executing
distinct code blocks based on each
condition's results. The switch statement
compares a value against multiple
cases and runs code based on the first matching case offering structured handling
of multiple options.Welcome to operators
and expressions. After watching this video, you will be able to classify JavaScript operators into
six categories and explain their uses and
create expressions by integrating values,
variables, and operators. Operators and expressions
are fundamental concepts in JavaScript as they
are essential for performing various
operations and calculations. Let's explore these
concepts in more detail. Operators in JavaScript
are special symbols or keywords used to perform operations on
variables and values. JavaScript supports a
variety of operators, including: arithmetic operators, comparison operators,
logical operators, assignment operators,
unary operators, and typeof operators. Now let's delve into each
type of operator in detail. Arithmetic operators are used for basic mathematical
calculations. Common arithmetic operators
include: addition, subtraction, multiplication,
division, and modulus. Comparison operators are used
to compare two values or variables and return a
Boolean true or false result. Common comparison
operators include: equality, inequality,
strict equality, strict inequality, less than, greater than, less
than or equal to, and greater than or equal to. Logical operators are used to combine or manipulate
Boolean values. Common logical operators
include logical AND, logical OR, and logical NOT. Assignment operators are used to assign values to variables. The most basic assignment
operator is the equal sign. Unary operators operate on
a single value or variable. Common unary operators include
increment and decrement. The typeof operator is a built-in
operator in JavaScript that allows you to determine the data type of a
variable or an expression. It returns a string representing
the type of operand. It is often used in
conditional statements or for checking the type before
performing certain operations. In these examples, the typeof operator is used to determine
the type of variable, check the type in a
conditional statement and find the type
of an expression. The possible return
values for typeof are: "Undefined" if the variable
is declared but not defined, "Object" for objects,
arrays, and null, "Boolean" for Boolean values, "Number" for numbers, and
"String" for strings. Now let's learn
about expressions. An expression is a combination
of values, variables, and operators that can be evaluated to produce
a single value. Expressions can be
simple or complex and are an integral part
of JavaScript code. Examples of expressions include: arithmetic expressions
involving combining numbers with operators, variable expressions
including combining variables with operators, function call
expressions involving calling a function and
using its return value, conditional expressions
involve using the ternary operator to create
conditional expressions. Understanding operators and
expressions is crucial for writing code that effectively
performs calculations, makes decisions, and
manipulates data. They are the building
blocks for creating complex algorithms
and applications. In this video, you learned that operators and
expressions are fundamental concepts
in JavaScript allowing various operations
and calculations. Operators consist of
arithmetic, comparison, logical, assignment, unary, and typeof operators. Expressions combine
values, variables, and operators to produce single results used
in arithmetic, variable assignment,
function calls, or conditional logic, and a strong grasp of these concepts is crucial for effective JavaScript coding, enabling tasks from
calculations to complex algorithms and
application development.[MUSIC] Welcome to data types and variables. After watching this video, you will
be able to explain how variables in JavaScript store and manage data,
explain common naming conventions and rules, and define the concept
of data types in JavaScript. In JavaScript, variables are used
to store and manage data. Variables act as containers for
various types of information or values. You can think of a variable as a named
storage location that holds data, and you can use this data in
your JavaScript code. Let's explore some key points
about variables in JavaScript. For the initialization of a variable, you can optionally assign
an initial value to it. To create a variable in JavaScript, you also need to declare it using one
of three keywords, var, let, or const. The declaration tells JavaScript that
you want to reserve a spot in memory to store data. Var was the original way to declare
variables in JavaScript, and it has function level scope. This means that a variable declared with
var is available throughout the entire function in which it is declared. Let was introduced in ES6 and
provides block level scoping. This means, that a variable declared with
let is only available within the block enclosed by curly braces
in which it is defined. This scope is more predictable and
less error prone. Const is also introduced in ES6 and is used to declare variables
with constant values. Once you assign a value
to a const variable, you cannot reassign it a different value. It also has block level scoping. Const variables are often used for
values that should not change, such as mathematical constants or
references to immutable objects. Variable names must start with a letter,
underscore, or dollar sign, and can contain letters, numbers,
underscores, and dollar signs. Variable names are case sensitive. Here are a few of the examples
of variable names. Variables declared with
let can be reassigned, but not redeclared within the same block. While variables declared with const are
constant and can neither be reassigned nor redeclared within the same block. Understanding variables is crucial for
managing and manipulating data in JavaScript programs. They allow you to work with
different types of information, making your code dynamic and adaptable. In JavaScript, data types are
classifications or categories that specify what kind of data can be stored and
manipulated in a program. JavaScript is a dynamically typed
language, which means that you don't need to explicitly specify the data
type of a variable when you declare it. The data type is determined dynamically at
runtime based on the value you assign to the variable. JavaScript has several
built-in data types, which can be categorized into
the following major categories. Primitive data types,
composite data types. Let's learn about primitive data types. Strings represents text. A string is enclosed in single or
double quotes. Number represents both integers and
floating-point numbers. Boolean represents true or false values. Undefined represents a variable
that has been declared, but hasn't been assigned a value. Null represents an empty value or
absence of any object value. Now, let's learn about
composite data types. Composite data types
are those that can hold and manage multiple values as a single unit. These data types are used to organize and
manipulate collections of data, making it easier to work with
more complex structures. Array and
object are two composite data types. An array in JavaScript is a list like data
structure for storing multiple value. While an object is a collection
of key value pairs used for structured data storage. JavaScript's dynamic typing allows
variables to change data types during execution, making it a versatile language. Understanding these data types is crucial
for effective JavaScript programming, as it helps in working with
different kinds of data and performing various operations on them. In this video, you learn that
JavaScript variables store and manage data with optional initialization
using var, let, or const. Var has function-level scope,
let has block-level scope, and const is used for constants. Variable names are case sensitive and
start with and contain a letter,
underscore, or dollar sign. Primitive data types include strings,
numbers, booleans, undefined, and null. And composite data types like arrays and
objects, handle multiple values and
structured data. [MUSIC]Welcome to introduction
to JavaScript and ES6. After watching this video, you will be able to explain how JavaScript enhances user
experience in web development, explain how to create a basic JavaScript
code in HTML file, and describe the various ways to display or output
information in JavaScript. JavaScript is a versatile and widely
used programming language that plays a pivotal
role in web development. It allows developers to create interactive and dynamic websites enhancing the user experience. Let's understand the
basics of JavaScript and learn how to make web
pages come to life with it. JavaScript was created
in the mid '90s and has since become a fundamental part of
web development. JavaScript is executed
in web browsers, making it an essential tool for enhancing the
user experience. Here are a couple of things
JavaScript is known for. Manipulating the DOM: JavaScript can change a web page's content
structure and style. It's like having a magic
wand for web elements. Handling events: From button
clicks to mouse movements, JavaScript can respond to
various user interactions, making websites more engaging. When you visit a website, your web browser downloads
the HTML and CSS files. It also downloads
JavaScript code, which serves as instructions
for your browser on how to make the web page
interactive and user friendly. For example, when
you click a button, JavaScript can be programmed
to show a message, change the page's colors, or load new information without needing to
refresh the whole page. JavaScript is like
the magician behind the scenes that brings your
favorite websites to life, making them dynamic
and responsive. JavaScript's evolution
over the years has brought about
several significant updates and enhancements, with ECMA script 6, ES6 or ECMA script 2015 being one of the most
transformative milestones. It marked a
significant upgrade to the JavaScript language and introduced numerous
new features, syntax enhancements, and
improved functionality, making JavaScript more powerful
and developer friendly. JavaScript is a fundamental part of web development and is used in various ways.
Enhancing user experience: JavaScript can
validate form data, create interactive forms, and provide real time
feedback to users. Dynamic web content: It can load new content
without refreshing the entire page like real
time social media feeds. Animations and visual effects: JavaScript can create
animations, sliders, and other visual effects to
improve website aesthetics. Web applications: Many web apps such as Google
Docs, Netflix, or Trello, rely heavily on
JavaScript to provide a smooth and responsive
user experience. Before we dive into coding, let's explore where
we can incorporate JavaScript code and visualize the impressive results
it can produce. To create JavaScript
in an HTML file, you have a few options. The most common methods
are: In-line JavaScript-- You can include JavaScript
code directly in your HTML file using the
script tag within the body. You can also place this tag
within the head section, but it may lead to
unexpected results. External JavaScript file: For larger projects and
better organization, it's recommended to put
your JavaScript code in a separate JS file and link it to your HTML file using the script tag with
a SRC attribute. Here's how. Step 1, create a separate JS file, e.g. script.js, and add your
JavaScript code to it. Step 2, in your HTML file
include a script tag with the SRC attribute pointing to your JavaScript file just before the closing body tag
for best practice. This approach keeps your
HTML structure clean and separates your JavaScript code for easier maintenance
and reuse. In JavaScript, there are various ways to display
or output information. Here are the most
common methods. Using console.log: it's
handy for checking values, debugging errors, and seeing
the results of your code. To use console.log,
follow these steps. To open the developer
console in most browsers, press F12 or right click
anywhere on the web page and select Inspect
or Inspect element, then go to the console tab. Altering the DOM: JavaScript can
dynamically change the content of your web
page by altering the DOM. You can update text, insert elements, or
modify attributes. Here's a simple example. In this case, the
JavaScript code finds an HTML element with the ID output and
changes its content. You can create pop-up
dialogues to display messages or
prompt users for input. JavaScript provides three
types of dialogues. Alert shows a message
in a pop up dialogue. Confirm displays a message and prompts the user
for a yes no response. Prompt displays a message and allows the user
to input text. Choose the method that
best suits your purpose. In this video, you learned that JavaScript is a crucial
language for web development, making websites interactive
and responsive. JavaScript instructs
browsers to update web pages dynamically
without full reloads. ES6 improved JavaScript
with new features, enhancing its power and
developer friendliness. JavaScript is essential for user experience, dynamic
content, animations, and web applications and
JavaScript can be embedded in HTML or linked externally with output shown
via console.log, DOM manipulation,
or pop up dialogs.Welcome to introduction
to JavaScript and ES6. After watching this video, you will be able to explain how JavaScript enhances user
experience in web development, explain how to create a basic JavaScript
code in HTML file, and describe the various ways to display or output
information in JavaScript. JavaScript is a versatile and widely
used programming language that plays a pivotal
role in web development. It allows developers to create interactive and dynamic websites enhancing the user experience. Let's understand the
basics of JavaScript and learn how to make web
pages come to life with it. JavaScript was created
in the mid '90s and has since become a fundamental part of
web development. JavaScript is executed
in web browsers, making it an essential tool for enhancing the
user experience. Here are a couple of things
JavaScript is known for. Manipulating the DOM: JavaScript can change a web page's content
structure and style. It's like having a magic
wand for web elements. Handling events: From button
clicks to mouse movements, JavaScript can respond to
various user interactions, making websites more engaging. When you visit a website, your web browser downloads
the HTML and CSS files. It also downloads
JavaScript code, which serves as instructions
for your browser on how to make the web page
interactive and user friendly. For example, when
you click a button, JavaScript can be programmed
to show a message, change the page's colors, or load new information without needing to
refresh the whole page. JavaScript is like
the magician behind the scenes that brings your
favorite websites to life, making them dynamic
and responsive. JavaScript's evolution
over the years has brought about
several significant updates and enhancements, with ECMA script 6, ES6 or ECMA script 2015 being one of the most
transformative milestones. It marked a
significant upgrade to the JavaScript language and introduced numerous
new features, syntax enhancements, and
improved functionality, making JavaScript more powerful
and developer friendly. JavaScript is a fundamental part of web development and is used in various ways.
Enhancing user experience: JavaScript can
validate form data, create interactive forms, and provide real time
feedback to users. Dynamic web content: It can load new content
without refreshing the entire page like real
time social media feeds. Animations and visual effects: JavaScript can create
animations, sliders, and other visual effects to
improve website aesthetics. Web applications: Many web apps such as Google
Docs, Netflix, or Trello, rely heavily on
JavaScript to provide a smooth and responsive
user experience. Before we dive into coding, let's explore where
we can incorporate JavaScript code and visualize the impressive results
it can produce. To create JavaScript
in an HTML file, you have a few options. The most common methods
are: In-line JavaScript-- You can include JavaScript
code directly in your HTML file using the
script tag within the body. You can also place this tag
within the head section, but it may lead to
unexpected results. External JavaScript file: For larger projects and
better organization, it's recommended to put
your JavaScript code in a separate JS file and link it to your HTML file using the script tag with
a SRC attribute. Here's how. Step 1, create a separate JS file, e.g. script.js, and add your
JavaScript code to it. Step 2, in your HTML file
include a script tag with the SRC attribute pointing to your JavaScript file just before the closing body tag
for best practice. This approach keeps your
HTML structure clean and separates your JavaScript code for easier maintenance
and reuse. In JavaScript, there are various ways to display
or output information. Here are the most
common methods. Using console.log: it's
handy for checking values, debugging errors, and seeing
the results of your code. To use console.log,
follow these steps. To open the developer
console in most browsers, press F12 or right click
anywhere on the web page and select Inspect
or Inspect element, then go to the console tab. Altering the DOM: JavaScript can
dynamically change the content of your web
page by altering the DOM. You can update text, insert elements, or
modify attributes. Here's a simple example. In this case, the
JavaScript code finds an HTML element with the ID output and
changes its content. You can create pop-up
dialogues to display messages or
prompt users for input. JavaScript provides three
types of dialogues. Alert shows a message
in a pop up dialogue. Confirm displays a message and prompts the user
for a yes no response. Prompt displays a message and allows the user
to input text. Choose the method that
best suits your purpose. In this video, you learned that JavaScript is a crucial
language for web development, making websites interactive
and responsive. JavaScript instructs
browsers to update web pages dynamically
without full reloads. ES6 improved JavaScript
with new features, enhancing its power and
developer friendliness. JavaScript is essential for user experience, dynamic
content, animations, and web applications and
JavaScript can be embedded in HTML or linked externally with output shown
via console.log, DOM manipulation,
or pop up dialogs.Welcome to introduction
to JavaScript and ES6. After watching this video, you will be able to explain how JavaScript enhances user
experience in web development, explain how to create a basic JavaScript
code in HTML file, and describe the various ways to display or output
information in JavaScript. JavaScript is a versatile and widely
used programming language that plays a pivotal
role in web development. It allows developers to create interactive and dynamic websites enhancing the user experience. Let's understand the
basics of JavaScript and learn how to make web
pages come to life with it. JavaScript was created
in the mid '90s and has since become a fundamental part of
web development. JavaScript is executed
in web browsers, making it an essential tool for enhancing the
user experience. Here are a couple of things
JavaScript is known for. Manipulating the DOM: JavaScript can change a web page's content
structure and style. It's like having a magic
wand for web elements. Handling events: From button
clicks to mouse movements, JavaScript can respond to
various user interactions, making websites more engaging. When you visit a website, your web browser downloads
the HTML and CSS files. It also downloads
JavaScript code, which serves as instructions
for your browser on how to make the web page
interactive and user friendly. For example, when
you click a button, JavaScript can be programmed
to show a message, change the page's colors, or load new information without needing to
refresh the whole page. JavaScript is like
the magician behind the scenes that brings your
favorite websites to life, making them dynamic
and responsive. JavaScript's evolution
over the years has brought about
several significant updates and enhancements, with ECMA script 6, ES6 or ECMA script 2015 being one of the most
transformative milestones. It marked a
significant upgrade to the JavaScript language and introduced numerous
new features, syntax enhancements, and
improved functionality, making JavaScript more powerful
and developer friendly. JavaScript is a fundamental part of web development and is used in various ways.
Enhancing user experience: JavaScript can
validate form data, create interactive forms, and provide real time
feedback to users. Dynamic web content: It can load new content
without refreshing the entire page like real
time social media feeds. Animations and visual effects: JavaScript can create
animations, sliders, and other visual effects to
improve website aesthetics. Web applications: Many web apps such as Google
Docs, Netflix, or Trello, rely heavily on
JavaScript to provide a smooth and responsive
user experience. Before we dive into coding, let's explore where
we can incorporate JavaScript code and visualize the impressive results
it can produce. To create JavaScript
in an HTML file, you have a few options. The most common methods
are: In-line JavaScript-- You can include JavaScript
code directly in your HTML file using the
script tag within the body. You can also place this tag
within the head section, but it may lead to
unexpected results. External JavaScript file: For larger projects and
better organization, it's recommended to put
your JavaScript code in a separate JS file and link it to your HTML file using the script tag with
a SRC attribute. Here's how. Step 1, create a separate JS file, e.g. script.js, and add your
JavaScript code to it. Step 2, in your HTML file
include a script tag with the SRC attribute pointing to your JavaScript file just before the closing body tag
for best practice. This approach keeps your
HTML structure clean and separates your JavaScript code for easier maintenance
and reuse. In JavaScript, there are various ways to display
or output information. Here are the most
common methods. Using console.log: it's
handy for checking values, debugging errors, and seeing
the results of your code. To use console.log,
follow these steps. To open the developer
console in most browsers, press F12 or right click
anywhere on the web page and select Inspect
or Inspect element, then go to the console tab. Altering the DOM: JavaScript can
dynamically change the content of your web
page by altering the DOM. You can update text, insert elements, or
modify attributes. Here's a simple example. In this case, the
JavaScript code finds an HTML element with the ID output and
changes its content. You can create pop-up
dialogues to display messages or
prompt users for input. JavaScript provides three
types of dialogues. Alert shows a message
in a pop up dialogue. Confirm displays a message and prompts the user
for a yes no response. Prompt displays a message and allows the user
to input text. Choose the method that
best suits your purpose. In this video, you learned that JavaScript is a crucial
language for web development, making websites interactive
and responsive. JavaScript instructs
browsers to update web pages dynamically
without full reloads. ES6 improved JavaScript
with new features, enhancing its power and
developer friendliness. JavaScript is essential for user experience, dynamic
content, animations, and web applications and
JavaScript can be embedded in HTML or linked externally with output shown
via console.log, DOM manipulation,
or pop up dialogs.[MUSIC] Welcome to Introduction
to Development Concepts. After watching this video, you will be
able to define software engineering and explain JavaScript's
role in web development. The software engineering world
is where creativity meets precision in crafting
cutting-edge applications. You can create high-quality, reliable and maintainable software by embracing
a systematic and disciplined approach and using well-defined principles,
methods, and practices. JavaScript is a popular and versatile
programming language that plays a crucial role in modern software development. Let's explore key development concepts and practices in software engineering using
JavaScript as our programming language. Let's first understand the software
development lifecycle, or SDLC. It is a structured approach to guiding
the creation of software applications. It comprises various phases like
requirements analysis, design, implementation, testing,
deployment, and maintenance. JavaScript is used in different phases
of SDLC to build web applications both on the client and server-sides. JavaScript is an object
oriented programming or OOP language that uses
objects as building blocks. Developers use classes and
objects to model real-world entities, enhancing code reusability and
maintainability. For instance,
imagine defining a class for a car and creating instances to represent
different cars in your software. Efficient data structures and algorithms
are the backbone of software engineering. You can use arrays, objects, maps, and
sets in JavaScript to store and manipulate data. You can also access various
built-in methods and libraries to perform common operations
like sorting and searching. You can use design patterns as
reusable solutions to common problems in software design. JavaScript developers use design
patterns to create robust, scalable, and maintainable code. Some popular design patterns in JavaScript
include the singleton, factory, and observer patterns. These patterns help structure code and
improve code quality. Version control systems
like Git are essential for collaborative software development. They enable multiple developers
to work on the same code base, track changes, and resolve conflicts. JavaScript projects provide version
control to ensure code integrity and collaboration. Testing is a critical aspect
of software engineering. JavaScript developers write unit,
integration, and end-to-end tests to ensure
their code works correctly. You can use common tools like Jest and
Mocha for testing JavaScript applications. Quality assurance processes are integral
to delivering reliable software. JavaScript is the cornerstone
of web development, it powers interactivity and
dynamic behavior on websites. Front-end frameworks like React, Angular
and vue.js use JavaScript extensively. Node.js, a server side JavaScript runtime,
is popular for building back-end services. Asynchronous programming allows tasks to
run independently without waiting for other tasks to finish,
improving efficiency. JavaScript uses callbacks,
promises, and async/await to handle asynchronous operations like
fetching data from servers or performing input/output operations
without blocking the main thread. Functional programming emphasizes using
pure functions and immutable data, leading to more predictable and
maintainable code. Using JavaScript, you can utilize higher
order functions like map, filter, and reduce to manipulate arrays and
use functions successfully. ECMAScript 2015 or ES6 and its subsequent
versions provide regular updates to the language by
introducing new syntax and features to improve developer
productivity and code readability. JavaScript boasts various
features like arrow functions, restructuring assignments, let and
const for variable declarations, template literals, and
the implementation of classes. Error handling and debugging revolve
around implementing strategies to detect, handle, and debug errors effectively,
ensuring the robustness of applications. JavaScript puts this into practice
by using the try catch blocks for error handling with tools
like the browser console and employing debugging tools
like Chrome DevTools. Frameworks and libraries leverage existing
tools to expedite development and streamline common tasks. In JavaScript, this translates to using
frameworks like React, Angular and vue.js for frontend development while
employing libraries such as Express.js for back-end development. Testing and test-driven development, or
TDD, represents a concept where tests are crafted before code creation to
ensure reliability and maintainability. In JavaScript, this involves
the utilization of testing frameworks like Jest, Mocha, or Jasmine to script and
automate application tests. Security is vital in software engineering. JavaScript developers must be aware
of security vulnerabilities such as cross-site scripting or XSS and
cross-site request forgery or CSRF, and follow best practices to mitigate these
risks when building web applications. Lastly, software engineering doesn't
end with deployment, maintenance and documentation are ongoing processes. Proper documentation,
including comments and ReadMe files helps other developers
understand and extend the code. JavaScript developers often use tools
like JSDoc for documenting code. In this video, you learn that JavaScript
guides the creation of web applications across SDLC phases, ensuring a structured
and effective development process. JavaScript's object-oriented principles
and versatile data structures empower developers to enhance code reusability and
manipulate data effectively. Design patterns like singleton, version
control with Git and robust testing using tools like Jest contribute to creating
maintainable and scalable JavaScript code. JavaScript is the driving force behind
web development, enabling dynamic and interactive features on both the front and
back end. JavaScript excels in asynchronous
programming, utilizing callbacks, promises and async/await,
while also embracing functional programming principles for
predictable and maintainable code. And you should stay updated
with JavaScript's evolution, leverage effective error handling,
address security vulnerabilities, and prioritize ongoing maintenance and
documentation for robust applications. [MUSIC]
Leitura: Introdução ao addEventListener
Introdução ao addEventListener
addEventListener é um método em JavaScript que permite aos desenvolvedores anexar manipuladores de eventos ou funções a elementos HTML. É um mecanismo fundamental para gerenciar eventos no desenvolvimento web.

Como Usar addEventListener?
A sintaxe geral para addEventListener é:

element.addEventListener(eventType, handlerFunction)

element: Refere-se ao elemento HTML ao qual você deseja anexar o ouvinte de eventos.

tipo de evento: Especifica o tipo de evento a ser escutado (por exemplo: ‘click’, ‘change’, ‘mouseover’, e assim por diante).

handlerFunction: JSON armazena configurações de configuração, estados de aplicação e dados estruturados em bancos de dados ou arquivos devido à sua simplicidade e facilidade de uso.

Ao comparar métodos de manipulação de eventos, você examina cenários com e sem o uso de addEventListener.

1. Sem addEventListener

1
2
3
4
5
6
// <button id="myButton" onclick="handleButtonClick()">Click me</button>
<script>
  function handleButtonClick() {
    console.log('Button clicked!');
  }
</script>

Copied!

Wrap Toggled!
Na ausência de addEventListener, o HTML incorpora um atributo onclick dentro do elemento do botão, acionando a função especificada (handleButtonClick()) ao clicar.

2. Com addEventListener

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
// <button id="myButton">Click me</button>
<script>
  // Get the button element
  const button = document.getElementById('myButton');
  // Add event listener for 'click' event
  button.addEventListener('click', handleButtonClick);
  // Function to handle button click
  function handleButtonClick() {
    console.log('Button clicked!');
  }
</script>

Copied!

Wrap Toggled!
Selecione o elemento botão com getElementById.

Adicione um ouvinte de evento para o evento ‘click’ ao botão usando addEventListener.

Atribua a função handleButtonClick como o manipulador de eventos a ser executado quando o usuário clicar no botão.

Esta configuração replica a funcionalidade anterior, mas emprega addEventListener em vez do atributo inline onclick para vincular o manipulador de eventos.

Usar addEventListener traz vários benefícios

Legibilidade e manutenibilidade: Desacoplar JavaScript do HTML melhora a compreensão e a manutenção do código.

Escalabilidade: À medida que sua base de código se expande, gerenciar ouvintes de eventos se torna mais simples. addEventListener permite a adição ou modificação fácil de ouvintes sem alterações no HTML.

Reutilização de código: Atribuir funções nomeadas (por exemplo: handleButtonClick) como manipuladores de eventos promove um código reutilizável aplicável a vários elementos ou eventos.

Consistência e melhores práticas: Aproveitar addEventListener está alinhado com as práticas modernas de JavaScript, promovendo uma separação limpa de código e aderindo aos princípios de JavaScript não intrusivo.

Múltiplos manipuladores de eventos: Um único elemento pode hospedar vários manipuladores de eventos para o mesmo evento, proporcionando flexibilidade na gestão de diversas funcionalidades acionadas por um evento.

Eventos
Os eventos JavaScript representam ações iniciadas pelo usuário em um navegador da web, como ações de mouse e teclado e eventos de formulário ou janela, permitindo experiências web dinâmicas e interativas.

Explicação com código:

1. Eventos do mouse
Os eventos do mouse em JavaScript se referem a interações com o ponteiro do mouse em um documento da web, incluindo cliques, movimentos sobre elementos, entrada/saída de áreas e arrastar elementos. Exemplos incluem ‘click’ (pressionar e soltar o botão do mouse), ‘mouseover’ (o mouse entra em um elemento), ‘mouseout’ (o mouse sai de um elemento) e ‘mousemove’ (o mouse se move dentro de um elemento).

1.1 Evento de clique
O evento de clique é acionado quando um botão do mouse é pressionado e liberado em um elemento, indicando uma interação do usuário. No exemplo, um botão com o ID ‘clickButton’ tem um ouvinte de evento de clique anexado. Quando clicado, um alerta com ‘Botão clicado!’ aparece.

1
2
3
4
5
6
// <button id="clickButton">Click Me!</button>
<script>
  document.getElementById('clickButton').addEventListener('click', function() {
    alert('Button clicked!');
  });
</script>

Copied!

Wrap Toggled!
Explicação do código
Este código cria um botão HTML e usa JavaScript para adicionar um ouvinte de evento de clique. Quando o usuário clica no botão, ele ativa um alerta que exibe a mensagem ‘Botão clicado!’

1.2 Mouseover
Mouseover ocorre quando o mouse entra em um elemento; mouseout acontece quando ele sai.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
// <div id="moveArea" style="width: 200px; height: 200px; background-color: lightcoral;"></div>
<script>
  const moveArea = document.getElementById('moveArea');
  moveArea.addEventListener('mousemove', function(event) {
    console.log(`Mouse coordinates - X: ${event.clientX}, Y: ${event.clientY}`);
  });
</script>
>

Copied!

Wrap Toggled!
Explicação do código
Este código cria um elemento HTML <div> (moveArea) com um fundo coral claro. Ele anexa um ouvinte de evento ‘mousemove’ ao moveArea, registrando as coordenadas do ponteiro do mouse no console durante o movimento.

2. Eventos de teclado
Os eventos de teclado do JavaScript, que envolvem pressionamentos, liberações ou manutenções de teclas, incluem ‘keydown’ (pressionar), ‘keyup’ (liberar) e ‘keypress’ (pressionar e manter). Esses eventos capturam a entrada do teclado, permitindo ações com base em pressionamentos de teclas específicos.

2.1 Keyup e Keydown
O evento keyup é acionado ao liberar uma tecla, enquanto o evento keydown é acionado ao pressionar uma tecla.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
// input type="text" id="keyInput">
<script>
  const keyInput = document.getElementById('keyInput');
  keyInput.addEventListener('keydown', function() {
    console.log('Key pressed down!');
  });
  keyInput.addEventListener('keyup', function() {
    console.log('Key released!');
  });
</script>
>
>

Copied!

Wrap Toggled!
Explicação do código
O código inclui a criação de um campo HTML <input> chamado keyInput e a adição de ouvintes de eventos para os eventos ‘keydown’ e ‘keyup’ a este campo de entrada. Sempre que um usuário pressiona uma tecla dentro do campo de entrada, o console registra a mensagem ‘Tecla pressionada!’. Da mesma forma, ao soltar a tecla, o console registra ‘Tecla liberada!’.

2.2 Pressionamento de tecla
O evento de pressionamento de tecla em JavaScript ocorre quando uma tecla no teclado é pressionada e produz um valor de caractere. Ele representa especificamente o pressionamento de uma tecla que resulta em uma entrada de caractere.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
// input type="text" id="pressInput">
<script>
  const pressInput = document.getElementById('pressInput');
  pressInput.addEventListener('keypress', function() {
    console.log('Key pressed!');
  });
</script>

Copied!

Wrap Toggled!
Explicação do código
Este código criou outro campo <input> (pressInput) em HTML e adicionou um ouvinte de eventos para ‘keypress’ ao pressInput. Ao pressionar uma tecla no campo de entrada, o console registra ‘Tecla pressionada!’

3. Eventos de envio

Eventos de formulário em JavaScript são eventos específicos associados a formulários HTML e seus elementos. Esses eventos permitem que os desenvolvedores capturem e respondam a interações ou alterações do usuário dentro dos elementos do formulário.

3.1 Evento de envio
Ativado quando um usuário envia o formulário, seja clicando em um botão de envio ou programaticamente usando JavaScript. Este evento permite que os desenvolvedores manipulem dados do formulário, realizem validação ou evitem o comportamento de envio padrão.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
// form id="myForm">
  <input type="text" id="textInput">
  <input type="submit" value="Submit">
</form>
<script>
  document.getElementById('myForm').addEventListener('submit', function(event) {
    event.preventDefault(); // Prevents the default form submission behavior
    console.log('Form submitted!');
  });
</script>

Copied!

Wrap Toggled!
Explicação do código
O código estabelece um formulário HTML com um campo de texto e um botão de envio. Um ouvinte de eventos no formulário captura o evento ‘submit’. Ao ser enviado, o ouvinte aciona uma função que previne o comportamento padrão e registra ‘Formulário enviado!’ no console.

3.2 Evento de mudança
Usado quando o valor de um elemento de entrada dentro do formulário muda. Aplica-se a vários elementos de formulário, como campos de texto, caixas de seleção, botões de opção e menus suspensos. Este evento permite validação em tempo real, atualizações ou ações com base nas mudanças de entrada do usuário.

3.3 Evento de foco:
O evento de foco aciona a atenção do elemento (por exemplo: cliques, tabulações). Esses eventos são úteis para fornecer dicas visuais, mensagens de validação ou acionar ações quando os usuários interagem com os elementos do formulário.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
// <input type="text" id="textInput" placeholder="Click here">
<script>
  const textInput = document.getElementById('textInput');
  textInput.addEventListener('focus', function() {
    console.log('Input focused');
  });
  textInput.addEventListener('blur', function() {
    console.log('Input blurred');
  });
</script>

Copied!

Wrap Toggled!
O código cria um campo de texto em HTML com texto de espaço reservado e adiciona ouvintes de eventos de ‘foco’ e ‘desfoque’ ao campo. Quando o campo ganha foco, o ouvinte de ‘foco’ registra ‘Campo focado’, e quando perde o foco, o ouvinte de ‘desfoque’ registra ‘Campo desfocado’ no console.

4. Eventos da janela
Eventos da janela em JavaScript lidam com janelas do navegador ou mudanças no documento, acionando ações para que os desenvolvedores capturem e respondam a estados ou comportamentos específicos.

4.1 Evento de carregamento
Usado quando todo o documento e seus recursos dependentes (como imagens e folhas de estilo) terminam de carregar, indicando que a página está pronta.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
// <script>
  <script>
  window.addEventListener('load', function() {
    console.log('Page and all resources loaded');
  });
</script>

Copied!

Wrap Toggled!
Explicação do código
Este evento adiciona um ouvinte de eventos ao objeto window para o evento ‘load’. Quando o documento e seus recursos terminam de carregar, a função registra ‘Página e todos os recursos carregados’ no console.

4.2 Evento de redimensionamento
Inicia quando a janela do navegador muda de tamanho, permitindo ajustes ou respostas a alterações nas dimensões da janela.

1
2
3
4
5
// <script>
  window.addEventListener('resize', function() {
    console.log('Window resized');
  });
</script>

Copied!

Wrap Toggled!
Explicação do código
Este código adiciona um listener de evento ao objeto window, ouvindo o evento ‘resize’. Quando a janela do navegador é redimensionada, dispara uma função que registra ‘Janela redimensionada’ no console.

4.3 Evento de rolagem
Ocorre quando há a detecção de ações de rolagem dentro do documento.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
// <div style="height: 2000px; background-color: lightblue;">
  Scroll down
</div>
<script>
  window.addEventListener('scroll', function() {
    console.log('Document scrolled');
  });
</script>




Explicação do código
Este código cria um <div> em HTML para rolagem e adiciona um ouvinte de eventos à janela, escutando o evento ‘scroll’. Quando o usuário rola a visualização do documento, o evento ‘scroll’ aciona uma função que registra ‘Documento rolado’ no console.

Em conclusão, addEventListener é um método JavaScript vital para gerenciar eventos de desenvolvimento web, melhorando a legibilidade e escalabilidade do código.